astro/cli/astro-deployment-pool-list.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "astro deployment pool list"
title: "astro deployment pool list"
id: astro-deployment-pool-list
description: List Airflow pools in a Deployment. 
hide_table_of_contents: true
sidebar_custom_props: { icon: 'img/term-icon.png' } 
---

List the Airflow pools stored in a Deployment's metadata database. 

## Usage

```sh
astro deployment pool list
```

This command only lists Airflow pools that were configured through the Airflow UI or otherwise stored in the Airflow metadata database. 

## Options

| Option                         | Description                                                                            | Possible Values                                                                |
| ------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `-d`,`--deployment-id`           |    The ID of the Deployment to list Airflow pools for.                                                | Any valid Deployment ID |
| `--deployment-name` | The name of the Deployment to list Airflow pools for. Use as an alternative to `<deployment-id>`. | Any valid Deployment name                                            |
| `-w`,`--workspace-id`          | List Airflow pools for a Deployment that is not in your current Workspace. If not specified, your current Workspace is assumed.           | Any valid Workspace ID                                                         |

## Examples

```bash
# List pools stored in the Deployment with an ID of cl03oiq7d80402nwn7fsl3dmv
astro deployment pool list --deployment-id cl03oiq7d80402nwn7fsl3dmv

# List pools stored in the Deployment "My Deployment"
astro deployment pool list --deployment-name="My Deployment"

## Related Commands

- [`astro deployment pool create`](cli/astro-deployment-pool-create.md)
- [`astro deployment pool update`](cli/astro-deployment-pool-update.md)

Commit message:

Add CLI Outputs (#3078)
* fix typo

* add outputs

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Jake Witz <74574233+jwitz@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update astro-deployment-pool-list.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Jake Witz <74574233+jwitz@users.noreply.github.com>

astro/cli/astro-deployment-pool-list.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "astro deployment pool list"
title: "astro deployment pool list"
id: astro-deployment-pool-list
description: List Airflow pools in a Deployment.
hide_table_of_contents: true
sidebar_custom_props: { icon: "img/term-icon.png" }
---

List the Airflow pools stored in a Deployment's metadata database.

## Usage

```sh
astro deployment pool list
```

This command only lists Airflow pools that were configured through the Airflow UI or otherwise stored in the Airflow metadata database.

## Options

| Option                 | Description                                                                                                                     | Possible Values           |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------- |
| `-d`,`--deployment-id` | The ID of the Deployment to list Airflow pools for.                                                                             | Any valid Deployment ID   |
| `--deployment-name`    | The name of the Deployment to list Airflow pools for. Use as an alternative to `<deployment-id>`.                               | Any valid Deployment name |
| `-w`,`--workspace-id`  | List Airflow pools for a Deployment that is not in your current Workspace. If not specified, your current Workspace is assumed. | Any valid Workspace ID    |

## Output

| Output  | Description                                       | Data Type |
| ------- | ------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| `NAME`  | The name of the Airflow pool                    | String    |
| `SLOTS` | The total number of worker slots in the pool | String    |

## Examples

```bash
# List pools stored in the Deployment with an ID of cl03oiq7d80402nwn7fsl3dmv
astro deployment pool list --deployment-id cl03oiq7d80402nwn7fsl3dmv

# List pools stored in the Deployment "My Deployment"
astro deployment pool list --deployment-name="My Deployment"
```

## Related Commands

- [`astro deployment pool create`](cli/astro-deployment-pool-create.md)
- [`astro deployment pool update`](cli/astro-deployment-pool-update.md)
