astro/cli/astro-deployment-pool-copy.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "astro deployment pool copy"
title: "astro deployment pool copy"
id: astro-deployment-pool-copy
description: Copy an Airflow pool from a Deployment.
hide_table_of_contents: true
sidebar_custom_props: { icon: 'img/term-icon.png' } 
---


Copy Airflow pools from one Astro Deployment to another. Airflow pools are stored in the target Deployment's metadata database and appear in the Airflow UI.  

## Usage

```sh
astro deployment pool copy
```

This command only copies Airflow pools that were configured through the Airflow UI or otherwise stored in the Airflow metadata database. 

:::tip

This command is recommended for automated workflows. To run this command in an automated process such as a [CI/CD pipeline](set-up-ci-cd.md), set the following OS-level environment pools in a way that the Astro CLI can access them:

- `ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID`
- `ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET`

After setting the pools, this command works for a Deployment without you having to manually authenticate to Astronomer. Astronomer recommends storing `ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` as a secret before using it to programmatically update production-level Deployments.

:::

## Options

| Option                         | Description                                                                            | Possible Values                                                                |
| ------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `-s`,`--source-id`           |    The ID of the Deployment to copy Airflow pools from.                                             | Any valid Deployment ID |
| `-n`, `--source-name` | The name of the Deployment from which to copy Airflow pools. Use as an alternative to `<source-id>`. | Any valid Deployment name                                            |
| `-t`, `--target-id` | The ID of the Deployment to receive the copied Airflow pools                                     |
| `--target-name` | The name of the Deployment to receive the copied Airflow pools.  Use as an alternative to `<target-id>`. | Any valid Deployment name                                            |
| `-w`,`--workspace-id`          | Specify to copy Airflow pools to a Deployment that is not in your current Workspace. If not specified, your current Workspace is assumed.          | Any valid Workspace ID      |

## Examples

```bash
# copy pools stored in the Deployment with an ID of cl03oiq7d80402nwn7fsl3dmv to a deployment with an ID of cl03oiq7d80402nwn7fsl3dcd
astro deployment pool copy --source-id cl03oiq7d80402nwn7fsl3dmv --target cl03oiq7d80402nwn7fsl3dcd

# copy pools stored in the Deployment "My Deployment" to another Deployment "My Other Deployment"
astro deployment pool copy --source-name="My Deployment" --target-name="My Other Deployment"
```

## Related Commands

- [`astro deployment pool create`](cli/astro-deployment-pool-create.md)
- [`astro deployment pool update`](cli/astro-deployment-pool-update.md)

Commit message:

Explain usage of deployment API tokens (#3167)
* Explain usage of deployment API tokens

* Apply suggestions from code review

* Update CLI tooltips

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Bas Harenslak <BasPH@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update astro/deployment-api-tokens.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Laura Zdanski <25642903+lzdanski@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: L. Zdanski <laura.zdanski@astronomer.io>

astro/cli/astro-deployment-pool-copy.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "astro deployment pool copy"
title: "astro deployment pool copy"
id: astro-deployment-pool-copy
description: Copy an Airflow pool from a Deployment.
hide_table_of_contents: true
sidebar_custom_props: { icon: 'img/term-icon.png' }
---


Copy Airflow pools from one Astro Deployment to another. Airflow pools are stored in the target Deployment's metadata database and appear in the Airflow UI.

## Usage

```sh
astro deployment pool copy
```

This command only copies Airflow pools that were configured through the Airflow UI or otherwise stored in the Airflow metadata database.

:::tip

This command is recommended for automated workflows. To run this command in an automated process such as a [CI/CD pipeline](set-up-ci-cd.md), you can generate an API token, then specify the `ASTRO_API_TOKEN` environment variable in the system running the Astro CLI:

```bash
export ASTRO_API_TOKEN=<your-token>
```

See [Organization](organization-api-tokens.md), [Workspace](workspace-api-tokens.md), and [Deployment](deployment-api-tokens.md) API token documentation for more details about ways to use API tokens.

:::

## Options

| Option                         | Description                                                                            | Possible Values                                                                |
| ------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `-s`,`--source-id`           |    The ID of the Deployment to copy Airflow pools from.                                             | Any valid Deployment ID |
| `-n`, `--source-name` | The name of the Deployment from which to copy Airflow pools. Use as an alternative to `<source-id>`. | Any valid Deployment name                                            |
| `-t`, `--target-id` | The ID of the Deployment to receive the copied Airflow pools                                     |
| `--target-name` | The name of the Deployment to receive the copied Airflow pools.  Use as an alternative to `<target-id>`. | Any valid Deployment name                                            |
| `-w`,`--workspace-id`          | Specify to copy Airflow pools to a Deployment that is not in your current Workspace. If not specified, your current Workspace is assumed.          | Any valid Workspace ID      |

## Examples

```bash
# copy pools stored in the Deployment with an ID of cl03oiq7d80402nwn7fsl3dmv to a deployment with an ID of cl03oiq7d80402nwn7fsl3dcd
astro deployment pool copy --source-id cl03oiq7d80402nwn7fsl3dmv --target cl03oiq7d80402nwn7fsl3dcd

# copy pools stored in the Deployment "My Deployment" to another Deployment "My Other Deployment"
astro deployment pool copy --source-name="My Deployment" --target-name="My Other Deployment"
```

## Related Commands

- [`astro deployment pool create`](cli/astro-deployment-pool-create.md)
- [`astro deployment pool update`](cli/astro-deployment-pool-update.md)
