astro/cli/install-cli.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: 'Install the CLI'
title: 'Install the Astro CLI'
id: install-cli
---

<head>
  <meta name="description" content="Instructions for installing, upgrading, and uninstalling the Astro command-line interface (CLI). The Astro CLI lets you get started with Apache Airflow quickly and it can be used with all Astronomer products." />
  <meta name="og:description" content="The Astro CLI helps you get started with writing DAGs and running Apache Airflow on your local machine. Learn how to install, upgrade, and uninstall the Astro CLI. " />
</head>

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import {siteVariables} from '@site/src/versions';

This is where you'll find information about installing, upgrading, and uninstalling the Astro CLI.

## Install the Astro CLI

<Tabs
    defaultValue="mac"
    groupId= "install-the-astro-cli"
    values={[
        {label: 'Mac', value: 'mac'},
        {label: 'Windows with winget', value: 'windowswithwinget'},
        {label: 'Windows (Manual)', value: 'windows'},
        {label: 'Linux', value: 'linux'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="mac">

Install the Astro CLI on a Mac operating system with a single command.

#### Prerequisites

- [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)
- [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) (v18.09 or higher).

By default, the Astro CLI uses Docker as its container management engine. However, if your organization uses Podman to run and manage containers, you can configure the Astro CLI to use it instead. See [Run the Astro CLI with Podman](cli/configure-cli.md?tab=mac#run-the-astro-cli-using-podman) for prerequisites and configuration steps.

#### Installation

To install the latest version of the Astro CLI, run the following command:

```sh
brew install astro
```

To install a specific version of the Astro CLI, specify the version you want to install at the end of the command:

```sh
brew install astro@<major.minor.patch-version>
```

If you specify only a major version, this command installs the latest minor or patch version available for the major version. For a list of all available versions, see the [CLI release notes](/astro/cli/release-notes.md).

#### Confirmation

To verify that the correct Astro CLI version was installed, run:

```sh
astro version
```

#### Resolve installation issues

Follow this procedure when Homebrew fails to install the latest Astro CLI version or the error `No formulae or casks found for astro@<major.minor.patch-version>` appears. To troubleshoot other Homebrew issues, see [Common Issues](https://docs.brew.sh/Common-Issues) in the Homebrew documentation.

1. Run the following command to update Homebrew and all package definitions (formulae):

    ```sh
    brew update
    ```

2. Install the Astro CLI. See [Installation](cli/install-cli.md?tab=mac#installation). 

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="windowswithwinget">

Starting with Astro CLI version 1.6, you can use the Windows Package Manager winget command-line tool to install the Astro CLI. To install an older version of the Astro CLI, you'll need to follow the [alternate Windows installation process](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/install-cli?tab=windows#install-the-astro-cli).

The winget command line tool is supported on Windows 10 1709 (build 16299) or later, and is bundled with Windows 11 and modern versions of Windows 10 by default as the App Installer. If you're running an earlier version of Windows 10 and you don't have the App Installer installed, you can download it from the [Microsoft Store](https://apps.microsoft.com/store/detail/app-installer/9NBLGGH4NNS1?hl=en-ca&gl=ca). If you've installed the App Installer previously, make sure you're using the latest version before running commands.

#### Prerequisites

- [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/windows/install/).
- Microsoft Hyper-V enabled. See [How to Enable Hyper-V On Windows](https://www.wintips.org/how-to-enable-hyper-v-on-windows-10-11-home/).
- The latest version of the Windows [App Installer](https://apps.microsoft.com/store/detail/app-installer/9NBLGGH4NNS1?hl=en-ca&gl=ca).
- Windows 10 1709 (build 16299) or later or Windows 11.

By default, the Astro CLI uses Docker as its container management engine. However, if your organization uses Podman to run and manage containers, you can configure the Astro CLI to use it instead. See [Run the Astro CLI with Podman](cli/configure-cli.md?tab=mac#run-the-astro-cli-using-podman) for prerequisites and configuration steps.

#### Installation

Open Windows PowerShell as an administrator and then run the following command:

```sh
winget install -e --id Astronomer.Astro
```

To install a specific version of the Astro CLI, specify the version you want to install at the end of the command. For example, running the following command specifies the latest available version of the Astro CLI:

<pre><code parentName="pre">{`winget install -e --id Astronomer.Astro -v ${siteVariables.cliVersion}`}</code></pre>

#### Resolve installation issues

If an error message appears indicating that the term winget is not recognized as an internal or external command when you attempt to run winget commands, see this [troubleshooting document](https://github.com/microsoft/winget-cli/tree/master/doc/troubleshooting#common-issues) provided by Microsoft. 

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="windows">

This is where you'll find information about installing the Astro CLI on a Windows operating system. Starting with Astro CLI version 1.6, you can use the Windows Package Manager winget command-line tool to install the Astro CLI. See [Windows with winget](install-cli.md?tab=windows%20with%20winget#install-the-astro-cli).

#### Prerequisites

- [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/windows/install/).
- Microsoft Hyper-V enabled. See [How to Enable Hyper-V On Windows](https://www.wintips.org/how-to-enable-hyper-v-on-windows-10-11-home/).
- Windows 10 or Windows 11.

By default, the Astro CLI uses Docker as its container management engine. However, if your organization uses Podman to run and manage containers, you can configure the Astro CLI to use it instead. See [Run the Astro CLI with Podman](cli/configure-cli.md?tab=mac#run-the-astro-cli-using-podman) for prerequisites and configuration steps.

#### Installation

1. Go to the [Releases page](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-cli/releases) of the Astro CLI GitHub repository, scroll to a CLI version, and then download the `.exe` file that matches the CPU architecture of your machine.

    For example, to install v1.0.0 of the Astro CLI on a Windows machine with an AMD 64 architecture, download `astro_1.0.0-converged_windows_amd64.exe`.

2. Rename the file to `astro.exe`.

3. Add the filepath for the directory containing the new `astro.exe` as a PATH environment variable. For example, if `astro.exe` is stored in `C:\Users\username\astro.exe`, you add `C:\Users\username` as your PATH environment variable. To learn more about configuring the PATH environment variable, see [How do I set or change the PATH system variable?](https://www.java.com/en/download/help/path.html).

4. Restart your machine.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="linux">

This is where you'll find information about installing the Astro CLI on Linux.

#### Prerequisites

- [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) (v1.13.1 or higher).

By default, the Astro CLI uses Docker as its container management engine. However, if your organization uses Podman to run and manage containers, you can configure the Astro CLI to use it instead. See [Run the Astro CLI with Podman](cli/configure-cli.md?tab=mac#run-the-astro-cli-using-podman) for prerequisites and configuration steps.

#### Installation

Run the following command to install the latest version of the Astro CLI directly to `PATH`:

```sh
curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s
```

To install a specific version of the CLI, specify the version number as a flag at the end of the command. For example, to install the most recent release of the CLI, you would run:

<pre><code parentName="pre">{`curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s -- v${siteVariables.cliVersion}`}</code></pre>

If you specify only a major version, this command installs the latest minor or patch version available for the major version. If you specify only a major version, this command installs the latest minor or patch version available for the major version. For a list of all available versions, see the [CLI release notes](cli/release-notes.md).

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Upgrade the CLI

<Tabs
    defaultValue="mac"
    groupId= "upgrade-the-cli"
    values={[
        {label: 'Mac', value: 'mac'},
        {label: 'Windows with winget', value: 'windowswithwinget'},
        {label: 'Windows (Manual)', value: 'windows'},
        {label: 'Linux', value: 'linux'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="mac">

To upgrade the Astro CLI to the latest version, run the following command:

```sh
brew upgrade astro
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="windowswithwinget">

Starting with Astro CLI version 1.6, you can use the winget command line tool to upgrade the Astro CLI. If you're upgrading from Astro CLI version 1.5.1 or earlier to a later Astro CLI version, you'll need to follow the [alternate Windows upgrade process](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/install-cli?tab=windows#upgrade-the-cli).

To upgrade the Astro CLI to the latest version, open Windows PowerShell as an administrator and run the following command:

```sh
winget install -e --id Astronomer.Astro
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="windows">

1. Delete the existing `astro.exe` file on your machine.

2. Go to the [Releases page](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-cli/releases) of the Astro CLI GitHub repository, scroll to a CLI version, and then download the `.exe` file that matches the CPU architecture of your machine.

     For example, to upgrade to v1.0.0 of the Astro CLI on a Windows machine with an AMD 64 architecture, you download `astro_1.0.0-converged_windows_amd64.exe`.

3. Rename the file to `astro.exe`.

4. Add the filepath for the directory containing the new `astro.exe` as a PATH environment variable. For example, if `astro.exe` was stored in `C:\Users\username\astro.exe`, you would add `C:\Users\username` as your PATH environment variable. To learn more about configuring the PATH environment variable, see [Java documentation](https://www.java.com/en/download/help/path.html).

5. Restart your machine.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="linux">

To upgrade the Astro CLI to the latest version, run the following command:

```sh
curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Uninstall the CLI

<Tabs
    defaultValue="mac"
    groupId= "uninstall-the-cli"
    values={[
        {label: 'Mac', value: 'mac'},
        {label: 'Windows with winget', value: 'windowswithwinget'},
        {label: 'Windows (Manual)', value: 'windows'},
        {label: 'Linux', value: 'linux'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="mac">

To uninstall the Astro CLI on Mac, run:

```sh
brew uninstall astro
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="windowswithwinget">

Starting with Astro CLI version 1.6, you can use the winget command line tool to uninstall the Astro CLI. To uninstall an older version of the Astro CLI, you'll need to follow the [alternate Windows uninstall process](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/install-cli?tab=windows#uninstall-the-cli).

To uninstall the Astro CLI, open Windows PowerShell as an administrator and run the following command:

```sh
winget uninstall -e --id Astronomer.Astro
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="windows">

To uninstall the Astro CLI on Windows:

1. Delete the filepath for `astro.exe` from your Windows PATH environment variable.
2. Delete `astro.exe`.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="linux">

To uninstall the Astro CLI on Linux, run the following command:

```sh
sudo rm /usr/local/bin/astro
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

Commit message:

add missing instruction to rename the Astro CLI executable

astro/cli/install-cli.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: 'Install the CLI'
title: 'Install the Astro CLI'
id: install-cli
---

<head>
  <meta name="description" content="Instructions for installing, upgrading, and uninstalling the Astro command-line interface (CLI). The Astro CLI lets you get started with Apache Airflow quickly and it can be used with all Astronomer products." />
  <meta name="og:description" content="The Astro CLI helps you get started with writing DAGs and running Apache Airflow on your local machine. Learn how to install, upgrade, and uninstall the Astro CLI. " />
</head>

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import {siteVariables} from '@site/src/versions';

This is where you'll find information about installing, upgrading, and uninstalling the Astro CLI.

## Install the Astro CLI

<Tabs
    defaultValue="mac"
    groupId= "install-the-astro-cli"
    values={[
        {label: 'Mac', value: 'mac'},
        {label: 'Windows with winget', value: 'windowswithwinget'},
        {label: 'Windows (Manual)', value: 'windows'},
        {label: 'Linux', value: 'linux'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="mac">

Install the Astro CLI on a Mac operating system with a single command.

#### Prerequisites

- [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)
- [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) (v18.09 or higher).

By default, the Astro CLI uses Docker as its container management engine. However, if your organization uses Podman to run and manage containers, you can configure the Astro CLI to use it instead. See [Run the Astro CLI with Podman](cli/configure-cli.md?tab=mac#run-the-astro-cli-using-podman) for prerequisites and configuration steps.

#### Installation

To install the latest version of the Astro CLI, run the following command:

```sh
brew install astro
```

To install a specific version of the Astro CLI, specify the version you want to install at the end of the command:

```sh
brew install astro@<major.minor.patch-version>
```

If you specify only a major version, this command installs the latest minor or patch version available for the major version. For a list of all available versions, see the [CLI release notes](/astro/cli/release-notes.md).

#### Confirmation

To verify that the correct Astro CLI version was installed, run:

```sh
astro version
```

#### Resolve installation issues

Follow this procedure when Homebrew fails to install the latest Astro CLI version or the error `No formulae or casks found for astro@<major.minor.patch-version>` appears. To troubleshoot other Homebrew issues, see [Common Issues](https://docs.brew.sh/Common-Issues) in the Homebrew documentation.

1. Run the following command to update Homebrew and all package definitions (formulae):

    ```sh
    brew update
    ```

2. Install the Astro CLI. See [Installation](cli/install-cli.md?tab=mac#installation). 

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="windowswithwinget">

Starting with Astro CLI version 1.6, you can use the Windows Package Manager winget command-line tool to install the Astro CLI. To install an older version of the Astro CLI, you'll need to follow the [alternate Windows installation process](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/install-cli?tab=windows#install-the-astro-cli).

The winget command line tool is supported on Windows 10 1709 (build 16299) or later, and is bundled with Windows 11 and modern versions of Windows 10 by default as the App Installer. If you're running an earlier version of Windows 10 and you don't have the App Installer installed, you can download it from the [Microsoft Store](https://apps.microsoft.com/store/detail/app-installer/9NBLGGH4NNS1?hl=en-ca&gl=ca). If you've installed the App Installer previously, make sure you're using the latest version before running commands.

#### Prerequisites

- [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/windows/install/).
- Microsoft Hyper-V enabled. See [How to Enable Hyper-V On Windows](https://www.wintips.org/how-to-enable-hyper-v-on-windows-10-11-home/).
- The latest version of the Windows [App Installer](https://apps.microsoft.com/store/detail/app-installer/9NBLGGH4NNS1?hl=en-ca&gl=ca).
- Windows 10 1709 (build 16299) or later or Windows 11.

By default, the Astro CLI uses Docker as its container management engine. However, if your organization uses Podman to run and manage containers, you can configure the Astro CLI to use it instead. See [Run the Astro CLI with Podman](cli/configure-cli.md?tab=mac#run-the-astro-cli-using-podman) for prerequisites and configuration steps.

#### Installation

1. Open Windows PowerShell as an administrator and then run the following command:

```sh
winget install -e --id Astronomer.Astro
```

To install a specific version of the Astro CLI, specify the version you want to install at the end of the command. For example, running the following command specifies the latest available version of the Astro CLI:

<pre><code parentName="pre">{`winget install -e --id Astronomer.Astro -v ${siteVariables.cliVersion}`}</code></pre>

2. Verify the `PATH` environment variable is updated by running:

```sh
$env:path.split(";")
```

Copy the Winget path similar to `C:\Users\myname\AppData\Local\Microsoft\WinGet\Packages\Astronomer.Astro_Microsoft.Winget.Source_8wekyb3d8bbwe`. Go to this folder and rename the Astro executable to `astro.exe`

3. Run `astro version` to confirm the Astro CLI is installed properly.

#### Resolve installation issues

If an error message appears indicating that the term winget is not recognized as an internal or external command when you attempt to run winget commands, see this [troubleshooting document](https://github.com/microsoft/winget-cli/tree/master/doc/troubleshooting#common-issues) provided by Microsoft. 

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="windows">

This is where you'll find information about installing the Astro CLI on a Windows operating system. Starting with Astro CLI version 1.6, you can use the Windows Package Manager winget command-line tool to install the Astro CLI. See [Windows with winget](install-cli.md?tab=windows%20with%20winget#install-the-astro-cli).

#### Prerequisites

- [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/windows/install/).
- Microsoft Hyper-V enabled. See [How to Enable Hyper-V On Windows](https://www.wintips.org/how-to-enable-hyper-v-on-windows-10-11-home/).
- Windows 10 or Windows 11.

By default, the Astro CLI uses Docker as its container management engine. However, if your organization uses Podman to run and manage containers, you can configure the Astro CLI to use it instead. See [Run the Astro CLI with Podman](cli/configure-cli.md?tab=mac#run-the-astro-cli-using-podman) for prerequisites and configuration steps.

#### Installation

1. Go to the [Releases page](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-cli/releases) of the Astro CLI GitHub repository, scroll to a CLI version, and then download the `.exe` file that matches the CPU architecture of your machine.

    For example, to install v1.0.0 of the Astro CLI on a Windows machine with an AMD 64 architecture, download `astro_1.0.0-converged_windows_amd64.exe`.

2. Rename the file to `astro.exe`.

3. Add the filepath for the directory containing the new `astro.exe` as a PATH environment variable. For example, if `astro.exe` is stored in `C:\Users\username\astro.exe`, you add `C:\Users\username` as your PATH environment variable. To learn more about configuring the PATH environment variable, see [How do I set or change the PATH system variable?](https://www.java.com/en/download/help/path.html).

4. Restart your machine.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="linux">

This is where you'll find information about installing the Astro CLI on Linux.

#### Prerequisites

- [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) (v1.13.1 or higher).

By default, the Astro CLI uses Docker as its container management engine. However, if your organization uses Podman to run and manage containers, you can configure the Astro CLI to use it instead. See [Run the Astro CLI with Podman](cli/configure-cli.md?tab=mac#run-the-astro-cli-using-podman) for prerequisites and configuration steps.

#### Installation

Run the following command to install the latest version of the Astro CLI directly to `PATH`:

```sh
curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s
```

To install a specific version of the CLI, specify the version number as a flag at the end of the command. For example, to install the most recent release of the CLI, you would run:

<pre><code parentName="pre">{`curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s -- v${siteVariables.cliVersion}`}</code></pre>

If you specify only a major version, this command installs the latest minor or patch version available for the major version. If you specify only a major version, this command installs the latest minor or patch version available for the major version. For a list of all available versions, see the [CLI release notes](cli/release-notes.md).

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Upgrade the CLI

<Tabs
    defaultValue="mac"
    groupId= "upgrade-the-cli"
    values={[
        {label: 'Mac', value: 'mac'},
        {label: 'Windows with winget', value: 'windowswithwinget'},
        {label: 'Windows (Manual)', value: 'windows'},
        {label: 'Linux', value: 'linux'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="mac">

To upgrade the Astro CLI to the latest version, run the following command:

```sh
brew upgrade astro
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="windowswithwinget">

Starting with Astro CLI version 1.6, you can use the winget command line tool to upgrade the Astro CLI. If you're upgrading from Astro CLI version 1.5.1 or earlier to a later Astro CLI version, you'll need to follow the [alternate Windows upgrade process](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/install-cli?tab=windows#upgrade-the-cli).

To upgrade the Astro CLI to the latest version, open Windows PowerShell as an administrator and run the following command:

```sh
winget install -e --id Astronomer.Astro
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="windows">

1. Delete the existing `astro.exe` file on your machine.

2. Go to the [Releases page](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-cli/releases) of the Astro CLI GitHub repository, scroll to a CLI version, and then download the `.exe` file that matches the CPU architecture of your machine.

     For example, to upgrade to v1.0.0 of the Astro CLI on a Windows machine with an AMD 64 architecture, you download `astro_1.0.0-converged_windows_amd64.exe`.

3. Rename the file to `astro.exe`.

4. Add the filepath for the directory containing the new `astro.exe` as a PATH environment variable. For example, if `astro.exe` was stored in `C:\Users\username\astro.exe`, you would add `C:\Users\username` as your PATH environment variable. To learn more about configuring the PATH environment variable, see [Java documentation](https://www.java.com/en/download/help/path.html).

5. Restart your machine.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="linux">

To upgrade the Astro CLI to the latest version, run the following command:

```sh
curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Uninstall the CLI

<Tabs
    defaultValue="mac"
    groupId= "uninstall-the-cli"
    values={[
        {label: 'Mac', value: 'mac'},
        {label: 'Windows with winget', value: 'windowswithwinget'},
        {label: 'Windows (Manual)', value: 'windows'},
        {label: 'Linux', value: 'linux'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="mac">

To uninstall the Astro CLI on Mac, run:

```sh
brew uninstall astro
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="windowswithwinget">

Starting with Astro CLI version 1.6, you can use the winget command line tool to uninstall the Astro CLI. To uninstall an older version of the Astro CLI, you'll need to follow the [alternate Windows uninstall process](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/install-cli?tab=windows#uninstall-the-cli).

To uninstall the Astro CLI, open Windows PowerShell as an administrator and run the following command:

```sh
winget uninstall -e --id Astronomer.Astro
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="windows">

To uninstall the Astro CLI on Windows:

1. Delete the filepath for `astro.exe` from your Windows PATH environment variable.
2. Delete `astro.exe`.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="linux">

To uninstall the Astro CLI on Linux, run the following command:

```sh
sudo rm /usr/local/bin/astro
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>
