contributing.md, before:

# Contribute to Astronomer docs

If you'd like to contribute to Astronomer docs directly, you are welcome to create a Pull Request (PR) to this repository with your suggested changes. To do so:

1. Clone this repository
2. Create a branch off of `main`
3. Make your changes in that branch
4. Submit a PR for review

Once you have submitted a PR for your changes, Netlify will add a comment to your PR that includes a link to a staging website with your changes.

Small edits and typo fixes don't need to be linked to an issue and should be merged quickly. To get a timely review on a larger contribution, we recommend first creating a GitHub issue describing the problem and linking that within your PR.

Every update to the `main` branch of this repository will trigger a rebuild of our production documentation page at https://www.docs.astronomer.io. It might take a few moments for your merged changes to appear.

> For more detailed instructions and workflows when contributing to docs as an Astronomer team member, see the [Astronomer Notion](https://www.notion.so/astronomerio/Contribute-a-Docs-Pull-Request-a3ca9018fdbc4206b120a6d530a8401b).

### Docs Structure

There are 3 core documentation folders in this repository:

- `astro`
- `software`
- `learn`

These folders contain the primary Astronomer docsets that you see by default on Astronomer's documentation site. Docs for the Astro CLI live within the `astro` folder.

The `software` directory is equivalent to the **Latest** version of the Astronomer Software docset, which is the docset that users see by default when accesssing `docs.astronomer.io/software`. An additional `software_versioned_docs` folder contains docsets for previous versions of Software. Whenever there's a new release of Astronomer Software, a new versioned docset is copied from `software` and added to this folder, with all links and sidebars updated automatically by Docusuaurs.

![Screen Shot 2022-01-04 at 11 22 19 AM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/74574233/148051957-b739ba42-2fc7-4344-b0a0-4f78881fd68c.png)

If you're working on a change in Software docs, you should work primarily in `software`. Make changes to `software_versioned_docs` only if your change is version-specific or a critical fix (e.g. incorrect or out-of-date information).

### Build Astronomer Docs Locally

If you want to submit a change to the Astronomer docs site itself, or test a screenshot, GIF, or a new documentation file, you may want to build and test your documentation change locally. Astronomer docs are built with [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/), which is an open-source documentation framework and our static site generator. The Astronomer docs site is built on [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/). Read the following sections for instructions on how to build and test your documentation changes locally with Docusaurus and Yarn.

#### Installation

To build docs locally, you need to install both Node and Yarn. While Yarn is included in Node, starting in 2020, the Yarn binaries are bundled within [Corepack](https://nodejs.org/api/corepack.html). If you're installing Node for the first time, you need to manually enable Corepacks before you can use Yarn.

1.  Follow the instructions on [Nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) to install Node, then confirm that you successfully installed Node by running the following command:

    ```sh
    node -version
    ```

2. Run the following command to enable `corepacks` and make Yarn available:

    ```sh
    corepack enable
    ```
After you install Node and enable Yarn with Corepacks, Docusaurus commands are available when you open the `docs` directory from your terminal. 

Please read the [Docusaurus documentation](https://docusaurus.io/docs/installation#requirements) for information on installing other tools you'll need to work with Docusaurus locally.

If you used an alternative package manager to install Node, such as `npm` or `homebrew`, you might need to troubleshoot your install.

#### Troubleshoot Yarn installations

1. Run the following command to check your Node version:

    ```sh
    node --version
    ```
    
2. Adjust your installation based on the output of the command: 

    - **Node and yarn are installed, but need to be updated**: Use a package manager like [npm or nvm](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-update-node-and-npm-to-the-latest-version/) to update your version, or download the installer from the [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) site.
    - **Node is installed, but you cannot enable Corepack**: If you installed Node using a package manager, and it's above version 16.10, but Corepack isn't available, follow the instructions for installing [Corepack with npm](https://github.com/nodejs/corepack#manual-installs) or installing [Corepack with Homebrew or nvm](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70082424/command-not-found-corepack-when-installing-yarn-on-node-v17-0-1), then run the following command to enable Corepack:

    ```sh
    corepack enable
    ```
    
#### Local Development

To serve a local version of the docs site with your changes, run:

```sh
yarn run start
```

You might also need to install `fs-extra` before you can build the site locally. To install it, run:

```sh
yarn add fs-extra
```

This command both builds and serves your local changes. By default, your local build is accessible at `localhost:3000`. From here, any changes you save in your text editor will render on this local site in real time.

Commit message:

Doc types templates (#3127)
* Add files + overview

* Add decision

* process template

* reference template

* Add additional details

* Update readme

* edit/restructure architecture

* update contributing guide

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Jake Witz <74574233+jwitz@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Jake Witz <74574233+jwitz@users.noreply.github.com>

contributing.md, after:

# Contribute to Astronomer docs

If you'd like to contribute to Astronomer docs directly, you are welcome to create a Pull Request (PR) to this repository with your suggested changes. To do so:

1. Clone this repository
2. Create a branch off of `main`
3. Make your changes in that branch
4. Submit a PR for review

Once you have submitted a PR for your changes, Netlify will add a comment to your PR that includes a link to a staging website with your changes.

Small edits and typo fixes don't need to be linked to an issue and should be merged quickly. To get a timely review on a larger contribution, we recommend first creating a GitHub issue describing the problem and linking that within your PR.

Every update to the `main` branch of this repository will trigger a rebuild of our production documentation page at https://www.docs.astronomer.io. It might take a few moments for your merged changes to appear.

> For more detailed instructions and workflows when contributing to docs as an Astronomer team member, see the [Astronomer Docs Contribution Notion](https://www.notion.so/astronomerio/Contribute-a-Docs-Pull-Request-a3ca9018fdbc4206b120a6d530a8401b), [Astronomer Doc Types Overview](https://www.notion.so/astronomerio/Doc-Types-Overview-1015aeb5fb74457eb366bcc0bcbb63d0?pvs=4), and [Astronomer Docs Spec](https://www.notion.so/astronomerio/Doc-Types-Spec-2a6d3e0332574ddaa5e4d89f99fff5ca?pvs=4).

### Docs Structure

There are 3 core documentation folders in this repository:

- `astro`
- `software`
- `learn`

These folders contain the primary Astronomer docsets that you see by default on Astronomer's documentation site. Docs for the Astro CLI live within the `astro` folder.

The `software` directory is equivalent to the **Latest** version of the Astronomer Software docset, which is the docset that users see by default when accesssing `docs.astronomer.io/software`. An additional `software_versioned_docs` folder contains docsets for previous versions of Software. Whenever there's a new release of Astronomer Software, a new versioned docset is copied from `software` and added to this folder, with all links and sidebars updated automatically by Docusuaurs.

![Screen Shot 2022-01-04 at 11 22 19 AM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/74574233/148051957-b739ba42-2fc7-4344-b0a0-4f78881fd68c.png)

If you're working on a change in Software docs, you should work primarily in `software`. Make changes to `software_versioned_docs` only if your change is version-specific or a critical fix (e.g. incorrect or out-of-date information).

### Doc templates

If you want to contribute new docs to the Astro, Software, or Astro CLI docs, you can get started by copying one of the standard [Doc templates](https://github.com/astronomer/docs/blob/main/doc-templates) when you make your initial PR. These templates include links to examples of similar docs as well as guiding questions that your new content should answer.

There are four standard templates:

* **Overview** -  Gives a detailed explanation about what something is, how it functions as a part of Astronomer products or in an implementation, and why someone should use it. All docs should have at least one sentence explaining why a feature is important to a user.
* **Decision** - Provides a summary of available implementation options, explains the benefits and trade-offs of each, shares recommended and best practices, and makes recommendations for pairing implementation options with use cases.
* **Process** -  Docs that share a series of actions to complete an objective. They should be introduced with a short paragraph about what the end state of the procedure is and why someone should complete it.
* **CLI Reference** - The Astro CLI command reference docs are highly structured to ensure the docs adequately answer the question “What is it?” and provide definitions, defaults, examples, and explanations of what a feature, term, or concept is.

Pick the template that best fits the type of content you want to make, make a copy, and replace the template content with your own information that addresses the questions the template prompt you to answer.

> For Astronomer team members, you can find additional information about the Doc Templates and standards in our internal documentation. See [Astronomer Doc Types Overview](https://www.notion.so/astronomerio/Doc-Types-Overview-1015aeb5fb74457eb366bcc0bcbb63d0?pvs=4), and [Astronomer Docs Spec](https://www.notion.so/astronomerio/Doc-Types-Spec-2a6d3e0332574ddaa5e4d89f99fff5ca?pvs=4).

### Build Astronomer Docs Locally

If you want to submit a change to the Astronomer docs site itself, or test a screenshot, GIF, or a new documentation file, you may want to build and test your documentation change locally. Astronomer docs are built with [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/), which is an open-source documentation framework and our static site generator. The Astronomer docs site is built on [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/). Read the following sections for instructions on how to build and test your documentation changes locally with Docusaurus and Yarn.

#### Installation

To build docs locally, you need to install both Node and Yarn. While Yarn is included in Node, starting in 2020, the Yarn binaries are bundled within [Corepack](https://nodejs.org/api/corepack.html). If you're installing Node for the first time, you need to manually enable Corepacks before you can use Yarn.

1.  Follow the instructions on [Nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) to install Node, then confirm that you successfully installed Node by running the following command:

    ```sh
    node -version
    ```

2. Run the following command to enable `corepacks` and make Yarn available:

    ```sh
    corepack enable
    ```
After you install Node and enable Yarn with Corepacks, Docusaurus commands are available when you open the `docs` directory from your terminal.

Please read the [Docusaurus documentation](https://docusaurus.io/docs/installation#requirements) for information on installing other tools you'll need to work with Docusaurus locally.

If you used an alternative package manager to install Node, such as `npm` or `homebrew`, you might need to troubleshoot your install.

#### Troubleshoot Yarn installations

1. Run the following command to check your Node version:

    ```sh
    node --version
    ```

2. Adjust your installation based on the output of the command:

    - **Node and yarn are installed, but need to be updated**: Use a package manager like [npm or nvm](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-update-node-and-npm-to-the-latest-version/) to update your version, or download the installer from the [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) site.
    - **Node is installed, but you cannot enable Corepack**: If you installed Node using a package manager, and it's above version 16.10, but Corepack isn't available, follow the instructions for installing [Corepack with npm](https://github.com/nodejs/corepack#manual-installs) or installing [Corepack with Homebrew or nvm](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70082424/command-not-found-corepack-when-installing-yarn-on-node-v17-0-1), then run the following command to enable Corepack:

    ```sh
    corepack enable
    ```

#### Local Development

To serve a local version of the docs site with your changes, run:

```sh
yarn run start
```

You might also need to install `fs-extra` before you can build the site locally. To install it, run:

```sh
yarn add fs-extra
```

This command both builds and serves your local changes. By default, your local build is accessible at `localhost:3000`. From here, any changes you save in your text editor will render on this local site in real time.
