astro/migration-partials/prereqs.mdx, before:

The migration process should be completed with help from your Astronomer Data Engineer. When you meet with them, ensure that the following steps are already completed:

- Astronomer [activated your installation](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/category/install-astro-hybrid).
- You [connected your cloud resources](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/category/connect-to-external-resources) to Astro.
- (Optional) You [configured your identity provider (IdP)](configure-idp.md).

On your local machine, make sure you have the following:

- An [Astro account](log-in-to-astro.md).
- The [Astro CLI](cli/install-cli.md).

On the cloud service from which you're migrating, ensure that you have:

- A source Airflow environment on Airflow 2 or later.
- Read access to the source Airflow environment.
- Read access to any cloud storage buckets that store your DAGs.
- Read access to any source control tool that hosts your current Airflow code, such as GitHub.
- Permission to create new repositories on your source control tool.
- (Optional) Access to any secrets backend credentials.
- (Optional) Permission to create new CI/CD pipelines. 

All source Airflow environments on 1.x need to be upgraded to at least Airflow 2.0 before you can migrate them. Astronomer Professional services can help you with the upgrade process.

Commit message:

Update migration docs to work for Hosted (#2369)
* Start updates

* Update migration docs for Hosted

* Update for review

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Manmeet Kaur <manmeetkaur.rangoola@gmail.com>

* Fix email text

* add note about locking dependencies

* Finish up formatting

---------

Co-authored-by: Manmeet Kaur <manmeetkaur.rangoola@gmail.com>

astro/migration-partials/prereqs.mdx, after:

Before starting the migration, ensure that the following are true:

- You have an Astro user account and can [log in to Astro](log-in-to-astro.md).
- (Optional) You [connected external cloud resources](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/category/connect-to-external-resources) to Astro.
- (Optional) You [configured your identity provider (IdP)](configure-idp.md).

On your local machine, make sure you have:

- An [Astro account](log-in-to-astro.md).
- The [Astro CLI](cli/install-cli.md).

On the cloud service from which you're migrating, ensure that you have:

- A source Airflow environment on Airflow 2 or later.
- Read access to the source Airflow environment.
- Read access to any cloud storage buckets that store your DAGs.
- Read access to any source control tool that hosts your current Airflow code, such as GitHub.
- Permission to create new repositories on your source control tool.
- (Optional) Access to your secrets backend.
- (Optional) Permission to create new CI/CD pipelines. 

All source Airflow environments on 1.x need to be upgraded to at least Airflow 2.0 before you can migrate them. Astronomer professional services can help you with the upgrade process.
