software/registry-backend.md, before:

---
title: 'Using registry backends in Astronomer Software'
sidebar_label: 'Use a registry backend'
id: registry-backend
description: Configure a registry backend to work with the Astronomer platform.
---

Astronomer Software requires a Docker Registry to store the Docker Images generated every time a user pushes code or makes a configuration change to an Airflow Deployment on Astronomer.

The default storage backend for this Docker Registry is a [Kubernetes Persistent Volume](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/). While this may be sufficient for teams just getting started on Astronomer, Astronomer recommends backing the registry with an external storage solution for any team running in production.

The following are the registry backend tools supported by Astronomer:

- [Google Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage/)
- [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/)
- [Azure Blob Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/storage/blobs/)

Note that this doc explains only how to set up a registry for hosting Astronomer's system images. To create a custom registry for Deployment images, see [Configure a custom image registry for Deployment images](custom-image-registry.md).

## Google Cloud Storage

If you're running Astronomer Software on Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), Astronomer recommends using Google Cloud Storage (GCS) as a registry backend solution.

### Prerequisites

To use GCS as a registry backend solution, you'll need:

- An existing GCS Bucket
- Your Google Cloud Platform service account JSON Key
- Permissions to create a Kubernetes Secret in your cluster

### Update your config.yaml file

1. Download your GCP service account JSON key from the [Google Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/serviceaccountkey). Make sure the service account you use has both the `Storage Legacy Bucket Owner` and `Storage Object Admin` roles.

2. Create a [Kubernetes Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) using the downloaded key:

```
kubectl create secret generic astronomer-gcs-keyfile --from-file astronomer-gcs-keyfile=/path/to/key.json -n <your-namespace>
```

3. Add the following to your config.yaml file:

```yaml
astronomer:
  registry:
    gcs:
      enabled: true
      bucket: my-gcs-bucket
```

Example:

```yaml
#################################
## Astronomer global configuration
#################################
global:
  # Base domain for all subdomains exposed through ingress
  baseDomain: astro.mydomain.com

  # Name of secret containing TLS certificate
  tlsSecret: astronomer-tls

#################################
## Nginx configuration
#################################
nginx:
  # IP address the nginx ingress should bind to
  loadBalancerIP: 0.0.0.0
  preserveSourceIP: true

#################################
## SMTP configuration
#################################  
astronomer:
  houston:
    config:
      email:
        enabled: true
        smtpUrl: YOUR_URI_HERE
  registry:
    gcs:
      enabled: true
      bucket: my-gcs-bucket
```

4. Push the configuration change to your platform as described in [Apply a config change](apply-platform-config.md).

## AWS S3

If you're running Astronomer Software on the Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS), Astronomer recommends using AWS S3 as a registry backend solution.

### Prerequisites

To use AWS S3 as a registry backend solution, you'll need:

- An S3 bucket
- Your AWS Access Key
- Your AWS Secret Key
- Ability to create a Kubernetes Secret in your cluster

### Create S3 IAM policy and user

1. Use the following definition to create a new AWS IAM policy, making sure to replace `S3_BUCKET_NAME` with your own S3 bucket's name:

```
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "s3:ListBucket",
        "s3:GetBucketLocation",
        "s3:ListBucketMultipartUploads"
      ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::S3_BUCKET_NAME"
    },
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "s3:PutObject",
        "s3:GetObject",
        "s3:DeleteObject",
        "s3:ListMultipartUploadParts",
        "s3:AbortMultipartUpload"
      ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::S3_BUCKET_NAME/*"
    }
  ]
}
```

2. Create a new IAM User and attach the Policy. Your access key and secret key are generated and displayed after you create the user.

3. Create Kubernetes secrets for your key credentials in your Astronomer installation:

    ```sh
    $ kubectl create secret generic astronomer-s3-access-key --from-literal=accesskey=<your-access-key> -n <your-namespace>
    $ kubectl create secret generic astronomer-s3-secret-key --from-literal=secretkey=<your-secret-key> -n <your-namespace>
    ```
   
4. Select one of the following options:

  - To authenticate to AWS with your registry credentials, add this entry to the `config.yaml` file:

  ```yaml
    astronomer:
      registry:
        s3:
          enabled: true
          region: us-east-1
          regionendpoint: <your-region-endpoint>
          bucket: <your-bucket-name>
        extraEnvVars: 
          - name: REGISTRY_STORAGE_S3_REGION
            value: <your-s3-region>
          - name: REGISTRY_STORAGE_S3_ACCESSKEY
              valueFrom:
                secretKeyRef:
                  name: astronomer-s3-access-key
                  key: AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
          - name: REGISTRY_STORAGE_S3_SECRETKEY
              valueFrom:
                secretKeyRef:
                  name: astronomer-s3-secret-key
                  key: AWS_ACCESS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
    ```

  - To authenticate to AWS without providing your registry credentials, add this entry to the `config.yaml` file:

  ```yaml
    astronomer:
      registry:
        s3:
          enabled: true
          region: us-east-1
          regionendpoint: <your-region-endpoint>
          bucket: <your-bucket-name>
        extraEnvVars: 
          - name: REGISTRY_STORAGE_S3_REGION
            value: <your-s3-region>
    ```

4. Push the configuration change to your platform. See [Apply a config change](apply-platform-config.md).

### Enable encryption (_Optional_)

1. Create a key in AWS Key Management Service (KMS). During the key creation process you'll be asked to add "key users". Add the user created above as a "key user".

2. Create Kubernetes secrets for your key credentials:

    ```sh
    $ kubectl create secret generic astronomer-s3-access-key --from-literal=accesskey=<your-access-key> -n <your-namespace>
    $ kubectl create secret generic astronomer-s3-secret-key --from-literal=secretkey=<your-secret-key> -n <your-namespace>
    ```

3. Add the following values to your `config.yaml` file to enable encryption:

```yaml
astronomer:
  registry:
    s3:
      enabled: true
      region: us-east-1
      bucket: my-s3-bucket
      encrypt: true
      keyid: my-kms-key-id
    extraEnvVars: 
      - name: REGISTRY_STORAGE_S3_REGION
        value: <your-s3-region>
      - name: REGISTRY_STORAGE_S3_ACCESSKEY
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: astronomer-s3-access-key
              key: accesskey
      - name: REGISTRY_STORAGE_S3_SECRETKEY
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: astronomer-s3-secret-key
              key: secretkey
```

3. Push the configuration change to your platform. See [Apply a config change](apply-platform-config.md).

## Azure Blob Storage

If you're running Astronomer Software on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS), Astronomer recommends using Azure Blob Storage as a registry backend solution.

### Prerequisites

To use Azure Blog Storage as a registry backend solution, you'll need:

- Azure Storage Account Name
- Azure Account Access Key
- Azure Container Name

### Configure the registry backend

1. Create Kubernetes secrets for your key credentials:

    ```sh
    $ kubectl create secret generic astronomer-azure-access-key --from-literal=accountname=<your-account-name> -n <your-namespace>
    $ kubectl create secret generic astronomer-azure-secret-key --from-literal=accountkey=<your-account-key> -n <your-namespace>
    ```

2. Add the following to your `config.yaml` file:

```yaml
astronomer:
  registry:
    azure:
      enabled: true
      accountname: my-account-name
      accountkey: my-account-key
      container: my-container-name
      realm: core.windows.net
    extraEnvVars: 
      - name: REGISTRY_STORAGE_AZURE_REGION
        value: <your-azure-region>
      - name: REGISTRY_STORAGE_AZURE_ACCOUNTNAME
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: astronomer-azure-access-key
              key: accountname
      - name: REGISTRY_STORAGE_AZURE_ACCOUNTKEY
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: astronomer-azure-secret-key
              key: accountkey
```

3. Push the configuration change to your platform as described in [Apply a config change](apply-platform-config.md).

Commit message:

Add disambiguation about custom registries for Software (#2835)
* Add airgap note

* Add airgap notes

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Jake Witz <74574233+jwitz@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update software/install-airgapped.md

Co-authored-by: Jake Witz <74574233+jwitz@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update software/install-airgapped.md

Co-authored-by: Jake Witz <74574233+jwitz@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Jake Witz <74574233+jwitz@users.noreply.github.com>

software/registry-backend.md, after:

---
title: 'Using registry backends in Astronomer Software'
sidebar_label: 'Use a registry backend'
id: registry-backend
description: Configure a registry backend to work with the Astronomer platform.
---

Astronomer Software requires a Docker Registry to store the Docker Images generated every time a user pushes code or makes a configuration change to an Airflow Deployment on Astronomer.

The default storage backend for this Docker Registry is a [Kubernetes Persistent Volume](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/). While this may be sufficient for teams just getting started on Astronomer, Astronomer recommends backing the registry with an external storage solution for any team running in production.

The following are the registry backend tools supported by Astronomer:

- [Google Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage/)
- [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/)
- [Azure Blob Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/storage/blobs/)

:::info

This document explains only how to set up a registry for hosting Astronomer's system images. To create a custom registry for Deployment images, see [Configure a custom image registry for Deployment images](custom-image-registry.md). Or, to host all images in a high-security environment with no connections to public networks or internet, see [Install Astronomer in an airgapped environment](install-airgapped.md).

:::

## Google Cloud Storage

If you're running Astronomer Software on Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), Astronomer recommends using Google Cloud Storage (GCS) as a registry backend solution.

### Prerequisites

To use GCS as a registry backend solution, you'll need:

- An existing GCS Bucket
- Your Google Cloud Platform service account JSON Key
- Permissions to create a Kubernetes Secret in your cluster

### Update your config.yaml file

1. Download your GCP service account JSON key from the [Google Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/serviceaccountkey). Make sure the service account you use has both the `Storage Legacy Bucket Owner` and `Storage Object Admin` roles.

2. Create a [Kubernetes Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) using the downloaded key:

```
kubectl create secret generic astronomer-gcs-keyfile --from-file astronomer-gcs-keyfile=/path/to/key.json -n <your-namespace>
```

3. Add the following to your config.yaml file:

```yaml
astronomer:
  registry:
    gcs:
      enabled: true
      bucket: my-gcs-bucket
```

Example:

```yaml
#################################
## Astronomer global configuration
#################################
global:
  # Base domain for all subdomains exposed through ingress
  baseDomain: astro.mydomain.com

  # Name of secret containing TLS certificate
  tlsSecret: astronomer-tls

#################################
## Nginx configuration
#################################
nginx:
  # IP address the nginx ingress should bind to
  loadBalancerIP: 0.0.0.0
  preserveSourceIP: true

#################################
## SMTP configuration
#################################  
astronomer:
  houston:
    config:
      email:
        enabled: true
        smtpUrl: YOUR_URI_HERE
  registry:
    gcs:
      enabled: true
      bucket: my-gcs-bucket
```

4. Push the configuration change to your platform as described in [Apply a config change](apply-platform-config.md).

## AWS S3

If you're running Astronomer Software on the Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS), Astronomer recommends using AWS S3 as a registry backend solution.

### Prerequisites

To use AWS S3 as a registry backend solution, you'll need:

- An S3 bucket
- Your AWS Access Key
- Your AWS Secret Key
- Ability to create a Kubernetes Secret in your cluster

### Create S3 IAM policy and user

1. Use the following definition to create a new AWS IAM policy, making sure to replace `S3_BUCKET_NAME` with your own S3 bucket's name:

```
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "s3:ListBucket",
        "s3:GetBucketLocation",
        "s3:ListBucketMultipartUploads"
      ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::S3_BUCKET_NAME"
    },
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "s3:PutObject",
        "s3:GetObject",
        "s3:DeleteObject",
        "s3:ListMultipartUploadParts",
        "s3:AbortMultipartUpload"
      ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::S3_BUCKET_NAME/*"
    }
  ]
}
```

2. Create a new IAM User and attach the Policy. Your access key and secret key are generated and displayed after you create the user.

3. Create Kubernetes secrets for your key credentials in your Astronomer installation:

    ```sh
    $ kubectl create secret generic astronomer-s3-access-key --from-literal=accesskey=<your-access-key> -n <your-namespace>
    $ kubectl create secret generic astronomer-s3-secret-key --from-literal=secretkey=<your-secret-key> -n <your-namespace>
    ```
   
4. Select one of the following options:

  - To authenticate to AWS with your registry credentials, add this entry to the `config.yaml` file:

  ```yaml
    astronomer:
      registry:
        s3:
          enabled: true
          region: us-east-1
          regionendpoint: <your-region-endpoint>
          bucket: <your-bucket-name>
        extraEnvVars: 
          - name: REGISTRY_STORAGE_S3_REGION
            value: <your-s3-region>
          - name: REGISTRY_STORAGE_S3_ACCESSKEY
              valueFrom:
                secretKeyRef:
                  name: astronomer-s3-access-key
                  key: AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
          - name: REGISTRY_STORAGE_S3_SECRETKEY
              valueFrom:
                secretKeyRef:
                  name: astronomer-s3-secret-key
                  key: AWS_ACCESS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
    ```

  - To authenticate to AWS without providing your registry credentials, add this entry to the `config.yaml` file:

  ```yaml
    astronomer:
      registry:
        s3:
          enabled: true
          region: us-east-1
          regionendpoint: <your-region-endpoint>
          bucket: <your-bucket-name>
        extraEnvVars: 
          - name: REGISTRY_STORAGE_S3_REGION
            value: <your-s3-region>
    ```

4. Push the configuration change to your platform. See [Apply a config change](apply-platform-config.md).

### Enable encryption (_Optional_)

1. Create a key in AWS Key Management Service (KMS). During the key creation process you'll be asked to add "key users". Add the user created above as a "key user".

2. Create Kubernetes secrets for your key credentials:

    ```sh
    $ kubectl create secret generic astronomer-s3-access-key --from-literal=accesskey=<your-access-key> -n <your-namespace>
    $ kubectl create secret generic astronomer-s3-secret-key --from-literal=secretkey=<your-secret-key> -n <your-namespace>
    ```

3. Add the following values to your `config.yaml` file to enable encryption:

```yaml
astronomer:
  registry:
    s3:
      enabled: true
      region: us-east-1
      bucket: my-s3-bucket
      encrypt: true
      keyid: my-kms-key-id
    extraEnvVars: 
      - name: REGISTRY_STORAGE_S3_REGION
        value: <your-s3-region>
      - name: REGISTRY_STORAGE_S3_ACCESSKEY
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: astronomer-s3-access-key
              key: accesskey
      - name: REGISTRY_STORAGE_S3_SECRETKEY
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: astronomer-s3-secret-key
              key: secretkey
```

3. Push the configuration change to your platform. See [Apply a config change](apply-platform-config.md).

## Azure Blob Storage

If you're running Astronomer Software on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS), Astronomer recommends using Azure Blob Storage as a registry backend solution.

### Prerequisites

To use Azure Blog Storage as a registry backend solution, you'll need:

- Azure Storage Account Name
- Azure Account Access Key
- Azure Container Name

### Configure the registry backend

1. Create Kubernetes secrets for your key credentials:

    ```sh
    $ kubectl create secret generic astronomer-azure-access-key --from-literal=accountname=<your-account-name> -n <your-namespace>
    $ kubectl create secret generic astronomer-azure-secret-key --from-literal=accountkey=<your-account-key> -n <your-namespace>
    ```

2. Add the following to your `config.yaml` file:

```yaml
astronomer:
  registry:
    azure:
      enabled: true
      accountname: my-account-name
      accountkey: my-account-key
      container: my-container-name
      realm: core.windows.net
    extraEnvVars: 
      - name: REGISTRY_STORAGE_AZURE_REGION
        value: <your-azure-region>
      - name: REGISTRY_STORAGE_AZURE_ACCOUNTNAME
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: astronomer-azure-access-key
              key: accountname
      - name: REGISTRY_STORAGE_AZURE_ACCOUNTKEY
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: astronomer-azure-secret-key
              key: accountkey
```

3. Push the configuration change to your platform as described in [Apply a config change](apply-platform-config.md).
