learn/airflow-params.md, before:

---
title: "Create and use params in Airflow"
sidebar_label: "Params"
description: "Create and use DAG and task-level params in Airflow."
id: airflow-params
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import tdro_example_upstream from '!!raw-loader!../code-samples/dags/airflow-params/tdro_example_upstream.py';
import tdro_example_downstream from '!!raw-loader!../code-samples/dags/airflow-params/tdro_example_downstream.py';
import tdro_example_upstream_traditional from '!!raw-loader!../code-samples/dags/airflow-params/tdro_example_upstream_traditional.py';
import tdro_example_downstream_traditional from '!!raw-loader!../code-samples/dags/airflow-params/tdro_example_downstream_traditional.py';
import simple_param_dag from '!!raw-loader!../code-samples/dags/airflow-params/simple_param_dag.py';
import simple_param_dag_traditional from '!!raw-loader!../code-samples/dags/airflow-params/simple_param_dag_traditional.py';

Params are arguments which you can pass to an Airflow DAG or task at runtime and are stored in the [Airflow context dictionary](airflow-context.md) for each DAG run. You can pass DAG and task-level params by using the `params` parameter.

Params are ideal to store information that is specific to individual DAG runs like changing dates, file paths or ML model configurations. Params are not encrypted and therefore not suitable to pass secrets. See also [Best practices for storing information in Airflow](airflow-variables.md#best-practices-for-storing-information-in-airflow).

This guide covers:

- How to pass params to a DAG at runtime.
- How to define DAG-level param defaults which are rendered in the **Trigger DAG** UI.
- How to access params in an Airflow task.
- The hierarchy of params in Airflow.

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this guide, you should have an understanding of:

- Airflow DAGs. See [Introduction to Airflow DAGs](dags.md).
- Airflow operators. See [Operators 101](what-is-an-operator.md).
- Airflow context. See [Access the Apache Airflow context](airflow-context.md).

## Pass params to a DAG run at runtime

Params can be passed to a DAG at runtime in four different ways:

- In the Airflow UI by using the **Trigger DAG w/ config** button.
- Running a DAG with the `--conf` flag using the Airflow CLI ([`airflow dags trigger`](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/cli-and-env-variables-ref.html#trigger)).
- Using the TriggerDagRunOperator with the `conf` parameter.
- Making a POST request to the Airflow REST APIs [Trigger a new DAG run](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/post_dag_run) endpoint and using the `conf` parameter.

Param values passed to a DAG by any of these methods will override existing default values for the same key as long as the [Airflow core config `dag_run_conf_overrides_params`](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/configurations-ref.html#dag-run-conf-overrides-params) is set to `True`. 

:::info 

While it's possible to pass non-JSON serializable params, this behavior is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. It is best practice to make sure your params are JSON serializable.

:::

### Trigger DAG w/ config

You can pass params to a DAG from the Airflow UI by clicking on the Play button and selecting **Trigger DAG w/ config**. 

![Trigger DAG w/ config](/img/guides/airflow-params_trigger_dag_w_config_500.png) 

This button opens a UI in which you can specify details for the DAG run:

![Trigger DAG UI](/img/guides/airflow-params_trigger_dag_ui_500.png)

:::info

In Airflow 2.7+, you need to explicitly set the environment variable `AIRFLOW__WEBSERVER__SHOW_TRIGGER_FORM_IF_NO_PARAMS=True` for the **Trigger DAG w/ config** button to appear in the Airflow UI.

:::

- You can set the **Logical date** of the DAG run to any date that is in between the `start_date` and the `end_date` of the DAG to create DAG runs in the past or future.
- You can set the **Run id** to any string. If no run ID is specified, Airflow generates one based on the type of run (`scheduled`, `dataset_triggered`, `manual` or `backfill`) and the logical date (for example: `manual__2023-06-16T08:03:45+00:00`). 
- You can select configurations from recent DAG runs in the **Select Recent Configurations** dropdown menu.
- The **Trigger DAG** UI will render a UI element for every DAG-level params you define with a default value. See also [Define DAG-level param defaults](#define-dag-level-params-defaults).
- The information in the UI elements generates a Configuration JSON. You can directly edit the **Generated Configuration JSON** in the UI and add any additional params, whether a default has been defined for them or not.

After setting the configuration, you can start the DAG run with the **Trigger** button.

### CLI

When you run an [Airflow DAG from the CLI](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/cli-and-env-variables-ref.html#dags), you can pass params to the DAG run by providing a JSON string to the `--conf` flag. For example, to trigger the `params_default_example` DAG with the value of `Hello from the CLI` for `param1`, run: 

<Tabs
    defaultValue="astro"
    groupId= "cli"
    values={[
        {label: 'Astro CLI', value: 'astro'},
        {label: 'Airflow CLI', value: 'airflow'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="astro">

Run Airflow commands from the Astro CLI using `astro dev run`: 

```sh
astro dev run dags trigger params_defaults_example --conf '{"param1" : "Hello from the CLI"}'
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="airflow">


```sh
airflow dags trigger params_defaults_example --conf '{"param1" : "Hello from the CLI"}'
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

The CLI prints the configuration for the triggered run to the command line:

![CLI output](/img/guides/airflow-params_cli_param_output.png)

You can use a `--conf` flag with the following Airflow CLI sub-commands:

- `airflow dags backfill`
- `airflow dags test`
- `airflow dags trigger`

### TriggerDagRunOperator

The [TriggerDagRunOperator](cross-dag-dependencies.md#triggerdagrunoperator) is a core Airflow operator that allows you to start a DAG run from within another DAG. You can use the TriggerDAGRunOperator `conf` param to trigger the dependent DAG with a specific configuration.

The DAG below uses the TriggerDagRunOperator to trigger the `tdro_example_downstream` DAG while passing a dynamic value for the `upstream_color` param via the `conf` parameter. The value for `upstream_color` is passed via a [Jinja template](templating.md) pulling the return value of an upstream task via [XCom](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md#xcom).

<Tabs
    defaultValue="taskflow"
    groupId= "triggerdagrunoperator"
    values={[
        {label: 'TaskFlow', value: 'taskflow'},
        {label: 'Traditional syntax', value: 'traditional'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="taskflow">

<CodeBlock language="python">{tdro_example_upstream}</CodeBlock>

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="traditional">

<CodeBlock language="python">{tdro_example_upstream_traditional}</CodeBlock>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Runs of the `tdro_example_downstream` DAG that are triggered by this upstream DAG will override the default value of the `upstream_color` param with the value passed via the `conf` parameter, which leads to the `print_color` task to print either `red`, `green`, `blue` or `yellow`.

<Tabs
    defaultValue="taskflow"
    groupId= "triggerdagrunoperator"
    values={[
        {label: 'TaskFlow', value: 'taskflow'},
        {label: 'Traditional syntax', value: 'traditional'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="taskflow">

<CodeBlock language="python">{tdro_example_downstream}</CodeBlock>

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="traditional">

<CodeBlock language="python">{tdro_example_downstream_traditional}</CodeBlock>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


## Define DAG-level param defaults

To specify params for all runs of a given DAG, pass default values to the `param` parameter of the `@dag` decorator or the `DAG` class in your DAG file. You can directly specify a default value or use the `Param` class to define a default value with additional attributes.

The DAG below has two DAG-level params with defaults: `param1` and `param2`, the latter only accepting integers.

<Tabs
    defaultValue="taskflow"
    groupId= "define-dag-level-param-defaults"
    values={[
        {label: 'TaskFlow', value: 'taskflow'},
        {label: 'Traditional syntax', value: 'traditional'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="taskflow">

<CodeBlock language="python">{simple_param_dag}</CodeBlock>

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="traditional">

<CodeBlock language="python">{simple_param_dag_traditional}</CodeBlock>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

If you define DAG-level param defaults, the **Trigger DAG** UI renders a form for each param. From this UI, you can then override your defaults for individual DAG runs. A param with a red asterisk is a required param.

![Trigger DAG with simple defaults](/img/guides/airflow-params_simple_param_dag_trigger_ui.png)

:::info

When you specify a required `type` for a param, the field will be a required input by default because of [JSON validation](https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/json-schema-validation.html#name-dates-times-and-duration). To make a field optional but still require a specific input type, allow NULL values by setting the type to `["null", "<my_type>"]`.

:::

:::info

By default, Airflow assumes that the values provided to a keyword in the `params` dictionary are strings. You can change this behavior by setting the DAG parameter `render_template_as_native_obj=True`. See [Render native Python code](templating.md#render-native-python-code).

:::

### Param types

The following param types are supported:

- `string`: A string. This is the default type.
- `null`: Allows the param to be None by being left empty.
- `integer` or `number`: An integer (floats are not supported).
- `boolean`: `True` or `False`.
- `array`: An HTML multi line text field, every line edited will be made into a string array as the value.
- `object`: A JSON entry field.

### Param attributes

Aside from the `type` attribute, the `Param` class has several other attributes that you can use to define how users interact with the param:

- `title`: The title of the param that appears in the **Trigger DAG** UI.
- `description`: A description of the param.
- `description_html`: A description defined in HTML that can contain links and other HTML elements. Note that adding invalid HTML might lead to the UI not rendering correctly.
- `section`: Creates a section under which the param will appear in the **Trigger DAG** UI. All params with no specified section will appear under the default section **DAG conf Parameters**.
- `format`: A [JSON format](https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/json-schema-validation.html#name-dates-times-and-duration) that Airflow will validate a user's input against.
- `enum`: A list of valid values for a param. Setting this attribute creates a dropdown menu in the UI.
- `const`: Defines a permanent default value and hides the param from the **Trigger DAG** UI. Note that you still need to provide a `default` value for the param.
- `custom_html_form`: Allows you to create custom HTML on top of the provided features.

All `Param` attributes are optional to set. For string type params, you can additionally set `min_length` and `max_length` to define the minimum and maximum length of the input. Similarly, integer and number type params can have a `minimum` and `maximum` value.

### Param examples in the Airflow UI

This section presents a few examples of params and how they are rendered in the **Trigger DAG** UI.

The code snippet below defines a mandatory string param with a few UI elements to help users input a value.

```python
"my_string_param": Param(
    "Airflow is awesome!",
    type="string",
    title="Favorite orchestrator:",
    description="Enter your favorite data orchestration tool.",
    section="Important params",
    min_length=1,
    max_length=200,
)
```

![String param example](/img/guides/airflow-params_string_param_example.png)

When you define [date, datetime, or time param](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3339#section-5.6), a calendar picker appears in the **Trigger DAG** UI.

```python
"my_datetime_param": Param(
    "2016-10-18T14:00:00+00:00",
    type="string",
    format="date-time",
),
```

![Datetime param example](/img/guides/airflow-params_datetime_picker.png)

Providing a list of values to the `enum` attribute will create a dropdown menu in the **Trigger DAG** UI. Note that the default value must also be in the list of valid values provided to `enum`. Due to JSON validation rules, a value has to be selected.

```python
"my_enum_param": Param(
    "Hi :)", type="string", enum=["Hola :)", "Hei :)", "Bonjour :)", "Hi :)"]
),
```

![Enum param example](/img/guides/airflow-params_enum_example.png)

A boolean type param will create a toggle in the **Trigger DAG** UI.

```python
 "my_bool_param": Param(True, type="boolean"),
```

![Bool param example](/img/guides/airflow-params_bool.png)

If you provide custom HTML to the `custom_html_form` attribute, you can create more complex UI elements like a color picker. For sample code, see [this example DAG in the Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/_modules/airflow/example_dags/example_params_ui_tutorial.html).

![Color picker example](/img/guides/airflow-params_color_picker.png)

## Define task-level param defaults

You can set task-level param defaults in the same way as for DAG-level params. If a param of the same key is specified at both the DAG and task level, the task-level param will take precedence.

<Tabs
    defaultValue="taskflow"
    groupId= "define-task-level-param-defaults"
    values={[
        {label: 'TaskFlow', value: 'taskflow'},
        {label: 'Traditional syntax', value: 'traditional'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="taskflow">

```python
@task(params={"param1": "Hello World!"})
def t1(**context):
    print(context["params"]["param1"])
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="traditional">

```python
t1 = BashOperator(
    task_id="t1",
    bash_command="echo {{ params.param1 }}",
    params={"param1": "Hello World!"},
)
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>


## Access params in a task

You can access params in an Airflow task like you can with other elements in the [Airflow context](airflow-context.md).

<Tabs
    defaultValue="taskflow"
    groupId= "access-params-in-a-task"
    values={[
        {label: 'TaskFlow', value: 'taskflow'},
        {label: 'Traditional syntax', value: 'traditional'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="taskflow">

```python
@task
def t1(**context):
    print(context["params"]["my_param"])
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="traditional">

```python
def t1_func(**context):
    print(context["params"]["my_param"])

t1 = PythonOperator(
    task_id="t1",
    python_callable=t1_func,
)
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

Params are also accessible as a [Jinja template](templating.md) using the `{{ params.my_param }}` syntax.

If you try to access a param that has not been specified for a specific DAG run, the task will fail with an exception. 

## Param precedence

The order of precedence for params, with the first item taking most precedence, is as follows:

- Params that have been provided for a specific DAG run by a method detailed in [pass params to a DAG run at runtime](#pass-params-to-a-dag-run-at-runtime) as long as the [Airflow config core.dag_run_conf_overrides_params](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/configurations-ref.html#dag-run-conf-overrides-params) is set to `True`.
- Param defaults that have been defined at the task level.
- Param defaults that have been defined at the DAG level.

Commit message:

2.8 Learn edits (#3159)
* html config

* remove broken link

* tutorial draft

* lint

* fix image file name

* make admonition less scary

* UI and Datasets

* literal

* logging note

* remove will

* listener tutorial

* sidebar

* move explanation to plugins guide

* fix format

* notif note

* xcoms and branching

* branching and import statement change

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Jake Witz <74574233+jwitz@users.noreply.github.com>

* review edits 2

* add clarification listener vs callbacks vs datasets

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Kenten Danas <37819777+kentdanas@users.noreply.github.com>

* review edits 2

* proofread

* proofread 2

---------

Co-authored-by: Jake Witz <74574233+jwitz@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Kenten Danas <37819777+kentdanas@users.noreply.github.com>

learn/airflow-params.md, after:

---
title: "Create and use params in Airflow"
sidebar_label: "Params"
description: "Create and use DAG and task-level params in Airflow."
id: airflow-params
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import tdro_example_upstream from '!!raw-loader!../code-samples/dags/airflow-params/tdro_example_upstream.py';
import tdro_example_downstream from '!!raw-loader!../code-samples/dags/airflow-params/tdro_example_downstream.py';
import tdro_example_upstream_traditional from '!!raw-loader!../code-samples/dags/airflow-params/tdro_example_upstream_traditional.py';
import tdro_example_downstream_traditional from '!!raw-loader!../code-samples/dags/airflow-params/tdro_example_downstream_traditional.py';
import simple_param_dag from '!!raw-loader!../code-samples/dags/airflow-params/simple_param_dag.py';
import simple_param_dag_traditional from '!!raw-loader!../code-samples/dags/airflow-params/simple_param_dag_traditional.py';

Params are arguments which you can pass to an Airflow DAG or task at runtime and are stored in the [Airflow context dictionary](airflow-context.md) for each DAG run. You can pass DAG and task-level params by using the `params` parameter.

Params are ideal to store information that is specific to individual DAG runs like changing dates, file paths or ML model configurations. Params are not encrypted and therefore not suitable to pass secrets. See also [Best practices for storing information in Airflow](airflow-variables.md#best-practices-for-storing-information-in-airflow).

This guide covers:

- How to pass params to a DAG at runtime.
- How to define DAG-level param defaults which are rendered in the **Trigger DAG** UI.
- How to access params in an Airflow task.
- The hierarchy of params in Airflow.

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this guide, you should have an understanding of:

- Airflow DAGs. See [Introduction to Airflow DAGs](dags.md).
- Airflow operators. See [Operators 101](what-is-an-operator.md).
- Airflow context. See [Access the Apache Airflow context](airflow-context.md).

## Pass params to a DAG run at runtime

Params can be passed to a DAG at runtime in four different ways:

- In the Airflow UI by using the **Trigger DAG w/ config** button.
- Running a DAG with the `--conf` flag using the Airflow CLI ([`airflow dags trigger`](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/cli-and-env-variables-ref.html#trigger)).
- Using the TriggerDagRunOperator with the `conf` parameter.
- Making a POST request to the Airflow REST APIs [Trigger a new DAG run](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/post_dag_run) endpoint and using the `conf` parameter.

Param values passed to a DAG by any of these methods will override existing default values for the same key as long as the [Airflow core config `dag_run_conf_overrides_params`](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/configurations-ref.html#dag-run-conf-overrides-params) is set to `True`. 

:::info 

While it's possible to pass non-JSON serializable params, this behavior is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. It is best practice to make sure your params are JSON serializable.

:::

### Trigger DAG w/ config

You can pass params to a DAG from the Airflow UI by clicking on the Play button and selecting **Trigger DAG w/ config**. 

![Trigger DAG w/ config](/img/guides/airflow-params_trigger_dag_w_config_500.png) 

This button opens a UI in which you can specify details for the DAG run:

![Trigger DAG UI](/img/guides/airflow-params_trigger_dag_ui_500.png)

:::info

In Airflow 2.7+, you need to explicitly set the environment variable `AIRFLOW__WEBSERVER__SHOW_TRIGGER_FORM_IF_NO_PARAMS=True` for the **Trigger DAG w/ config** button to appear in the Airflow UI.

:::

- You can set the **Logical date** of the DAG run to any date that is in between the `start_date` and the `end_date` of the DAG to create DAG runs in the past or future.
- You can set the **Run id** to any string. If no run ID is specified, Airflow generates one based on the type of run (`scheduled`, `dataset_triggered`, `manual` or `backfill`) and the logical date (for example: `manual__2023-06-16T08:03:45+00:00`). 
- You can select configurations from recent DAG runs in the **Select Recent Configurations** dropdown menu.
- The **Trigger DAG** UI will render a UI element for every DAG-level params you define with a default value. See also [Define DAG-level param defaults](#define-dag-level-params-defaults).
- The information in the UI elements generates a Configuration JSON. You can directly edit the **Generated Configuration JSON** in the UI and add any additional params, whether a default has been defined for them or not.

After setting the configuration, you can start the DAG run with the **Trigger** button.

### CLI

When you run an [Airflow DAG from the CLI](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/cli-and-env-variables-ref.html#dags), you can pass params to the DAG run by providing a JSON string to the `--conf` flag. For example, to trigger the `params_default_example` DAG with the value of `Hello from the CLI` for `param1`, run: 

<Tabs
    defaultValue="astro"
    groupId= "cli"
    values={[
        {label: 'Astro CLI', value: 'astro'},
        {label: 'Airflow CLI', value: 'airflow'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="astro">

Run Airflow commands from the Astro CLI using `astro dev run`: 

```sh
astro dev run dags trigger params_defaults_example --conf '{"param1" : "Hello from the CLI"}'
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="airflow">


```sh
airflow dags trigger params_defaults_example --conf '{"param1" : "Hello from the CLI"}'
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

The CLI prints the configuration for the triggered run to the command line:

![CLI output](/img/guides/airflow-params_cli_param_output.png)

You can use a `--conf` flag with the following Airflow CLI sub-commands:

- `airflow dags backfill`
- `airflow dags test`
- `airflow dags trigger`

### TriggerDagRunOperator

The [TriggerDagRunOperator](cross-dag-dependencies.md#triggerdagrunoperator) is a core Airflow operator that allows you to start a DAG run from within another DAG. You can use the TriggerDAGRunOperator `conf` param to trigger the dependent DAG with a specific configuration.

The DAG below uses the TriggerDagRunOperator to trigger the `tdro_example_downstream` DAG while passing a dynamic value for the `upstream_color` param via the `conf` parameter. The value for `upstream_color` is passed via a [Jinja template](templating.md) pulling the return value of an upstream task via [XCom](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md#xcom).

<Tabs
    defaultValue="taskflow"
    groupId= "triggerdagrunoperator"
    values={[
        {label: 'TaskFlow', value: 'taskflow'},
        {label: 'Traditional syntax', value: 'traditional'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="taskflow">

<CodeBlock language="python">{tdro_example_upstream}</CodeBlock>

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="traditional">

<CodeBlock language="python">{tdro_example_upstream_traditional}</CodeBlock>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Runs of the `tdro_example_downstream` DAG that are triggered by this upstream DAG will override the default value of the `upstream_color` param with the value passed via the `conf` parameter, which leads to the `print_color` task to print either `red`, `green`, `blue` or `yellow`.

<Tabs
    defaultValue="taskflow"
    groupId= "triggerdagrunoperator"
    values={[
        {label: 'TaskFlow', value: 'taskflow'},
        {label: 'Traditional syntax', value: 'traditional'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="taskflow">

<CodeBlock language="python">{tdro_example_downstream}</CodeBlock>

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="traditional">

<CodeBlock language="python">{tdro_example_downstream_traditional}</CodeBlock>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


## Define DAG-level param defaults

To specify params for all runs of a given DAG, pass default values to the `param` parameter of the `@dag` decorator or the `DAG` class in your DAG file. You can directly specify a default value or use the `Param` class to define a default value with additional attributes.

The DAG below has two DAG-level params with defaults: `param1` and `param2`, the latter only accepting integers.

<Tabs
    defaultValue="taskflow"
    groupId= "define-dag-level-param-defaults"
    values={[
        {label: 'TaskFlow', value: 'taskflow'},
        {label: 'Traditional syntax', value: 'traditional'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="taskflow">

<CodeBlock language="python">{simple_param_dag}</CodeBlock>

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="traditional">

<CodeBlock language="python">{simple_param_dag_traditional}</CodeBlock>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

If you define DAG-level param defaults, the **Trigger DAG** UI renders a form for each param. From this UI, you can then override your defaults for individual DAG runs. A param with a red asterisk is a required param.

![Trigger DAG with simple defaults](/img/guides/airflow-params_simple_param_dag_trigger_ui.png)

:::info

When you specify a required `type` for a param, the field will be a required input by default because of [JSON validation](https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/json-schema-validation.html#name-dates-times-and-duration). To make a field optional but still require a specific input type, allow NULL values by setting the type to `["null", "<my_type>"]`.

:::

:::info

By default, Airflow assumes that the values provided to a keyword in the `params` dictionary are strings. You can change this behavior by setting the DAG parameter `render_template_as_native_obj=True`. See [Render native Python code](templating.md#render-native-python-code).

:::

### Param types

The following param types are supported:

- `string`: A string. This is the default type.
- `null`: Allows the param to be None by being left empty.
- `integer` or `number`: An integer (floats are not supported).
- `boolean`: `True` or `False`.
- `array`: An HTML multi line text field, every line edited will be made into a string array as the value.
- `object`: A JSON entry field.

### Param attributes

Aside from the `type` attribute, the `Param` class has several other attributes that you can use to define how users interact with the param:

- `title`: The title of the param that appears in the **Trigger DAG** UI.
- `description`: A description of the param.
- `description_md`: A description defined in Markdown that can contain links and other Markdown elements. In Airflow 2.8+, if you want to use HTML in the description, you need to set the Airflow configuration `webserver.allow_raw_html_descriptions` to `True` (`AIRFLOW__WEBSERVER__ALLOW_RAW_HTML_DESCRIPTIONS=True`). Note that HTML can introduce vulnerabilities and that adding invalid HTML might lead to the UI not rendering correctly.
- `section`: Creates a section under which the param will appear in the **Trigger DAG** UI. All params with no specified section will appear under the default section **DAG conf Parameters**.
- `format`: A [JSON format](https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/json-schema-validation.html#name-dates-times-and-duration) that Airflow will validate a user's input against.
- `enum`: A list of valid values for a param. Setting this attribute creates a dropdown menu in the UI.
- `const`: Defines a permanent default value and hides the param from the **Trigger DAG** UI. Note that you still need to provide a `default` value for the param.
- `custom_html_form`: Allows you to create custom HTML on top of the provided features. As of Airflow 2.8 this feature is deprecated and will be replaced by a new implementation in the future.

All `Param` attributes are optional to set. For string type params, you can additionally set `min_length` and `max_length` to define the minimum and maximum length of the input. Similarly, integer and number type params can have a `minimum` and `maximum` value.

### Param examples in the Airflow UI

This section presents a few examples of params and how they are rendered in the **Trigger DAG** UI.

The code snippet below defines a mandatory string param with a few UI elements to help users input a value.

```python
"my_string_param": Param(
    "Airflow is awesome!",
    type="string",
    title="Favorite orchestrator:",
    description="Enter your favorite data orchestration tool.",
    section="Important params",
    min_length=1,
    max_length=200,
)
```

![String param example](/img/guides/airflow-params_string_param_example.png)

When you define [date, datetime, or time param](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3339#section-5.6), a calendar picker appears in the **Trigger DAG** UI.

```python
"my_datetime_param": Param(
    "2016-10-18T14:00:00+00:00",
    type="string",
    format="date-time",
),
```

![Datetime param example](/img/guides/airflow-params_datetime_picker.png)

Providing a list of values to the `enum` attribute will create a dropdown menu in the **Trigger DAG** UI. Note that the default value must also be in the list of valid values provided to `enum`. Due to JSON validation rules, a value has to be selected.

```python
"my_enum_param": Param(
    "Hi :)", type="string", enum=["Hola :)", "Hei :)", "Bonjour :)", "Hi :)"]
),
```

![Enum param example](/img/guides/airflow-params_enum_example.png)

A boolean type param will create a toggle in the **Trigger DAG** UI.

```python
 "my_bool_param": Param(True, type="boolean"),
```

![Bool param example](/img/guides/airflow-params_bool.png)

If you provide custom HTML to the `custom_html_form` attribute, you can create more complex UI elements like a color picker. For sample code, see [this example DAG in the Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/_modules/airflow/example_dags/example_params_ui_tutorial.html). Note that this feature is deprecated as of Airflow 2.8 and its implementation will change in the future.

![Color picker example](/img/guides/airflow-params_color_picker.png)

## Define task-level param defaults

You can set task-level param defaults in the same way as for DAG-level params. If a param of the same key is specified at both the DAG and task level, the task-level param will take precedence.

<Tabs
    defaultValue="taskflow"
    groupId= "define-task-level-param-defaults"
    values={[
        {label: 'TaskFlow', value: 'taskflow'},
        {label: 'Traditional syntax', value: 'traditional'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="taskflow">

```python
@task(params={"param1": "Hello World!"})
def t1(**context):
    print(context["params"]["param1"])
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="traditional">

```python
t1 = BashOperator(
    task_id="t1",
    bash_command="echo {{ params.param1 }}",
    params={"param1": "Hello World!"},
)
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>


## Access params in a task

You can access params in an Airflow task like you can with other elements in the [Airflow context](airflow-context.md).

<Tabs
    defaultValue="taskflow"
    groupId= "access-params-in-a-task"
    values={[
        {label: 'TaskFlow', value: 'taskflow'},
        {label: 'Traditional syntax', value: 'traditional'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="taskflow">

```python
@task
def t1(**context):
    print(context["params"]["my_param"])
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="traditional">

```python
def t1_func(**context):
    print(context["params"]["my_param"])

t1 = PythonOperator(
    task_id="t1",
    python_callable=t1_func,
)
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

Params are also accessible as a [Jinja template](templating.md) using the `{{ params.my_param }}` syntax.

If you try to access a param that has not been specified for a specific DAG run, the task will fail with an exception. 

## Param precedence

The order of precedence for params, with the first item taking most precedence, is as follows:

- Params that have been provided for a specific DAG run by a method detailed in [pass params to a DAG run at runtime](#pass-params-to-a-dag-run-at-runtime) as long as the [Airflow config core.dag_run_conf_overrides_params](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/configurations-ref.html#dag-run-conf-overrides-params) is set to `True`.
- Param defaults that have been defined at the task level.
- Param defaults that have been defined at the DAG level.
