astro/ci-cd-templates/gcs.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: GCS bucket
title: Deploy DAGs to from Google Cloud Storage to Astro
id: gcs
description: Use pre-built Astronomer CI/CD templates to automate deploying Apache Airflow DAGs to Astro using Google Cloud Storage.
---

### Prerequisites

- A Google cloud storage (GCS) bucket.
- An [Astro Deployment](create-deployment.md) with [DAG-only deploys enabled](deploy-code.md#enable-dag-only-deploys-on-a-deployment).
- A [Deployment API key ID and secret](api-keys.md).
- An [Astro project](create-first-dag.md) containing your project configurations.

### DAG-based deploy

This CI/CD template can be used to deploy DAGs from a single GCS bucket to a single Astro Deployment. When you create or modify a DAG in the GCS bucket, a Lambda function triggers your project to deploy DAGs to Astro.

:::info

To deploy any non-DAG code changes to Astro, you need to trigger a standard image-only deploy with your Astro project. When you do this, your Astro project must include the latest version of your DAGs from your GCS bucket. If your Astro project `dags` folder isn't up to date with your GCS DAGs bucket when you trigger this deploy, you will revert your DAGs back to the version hosted in your Astro project.

:::

1. Download the latest Astro CLI binary from [GitHub releases](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-cli/releases), then rename the file to, `astro_cli.tar.gz`. For example, to use Astro CLI version 1.13.0 in your template, download `astro_1.13.0_linux_amd64.tar.gz` and rename it to `astro_cli.tar.gz`.
2. In your GCS bucket, create the following new folders:

    - `dags`
    - `cli_binary`

3. Add `astro_cli.tar.gz` to `cli_binary`.
4. Create a [1st gen Cloud Function](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/console-quickstart-1st-gen#create_a_function) with the Python 3.9 Runtime in the same region as your storage bucket.
5. Create a [Cloud Storage trigger](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/calling/storage) with the following configuration: 

    - **Event provider**: Select **Cloud Storage**.
    - **Event**: Select **On finalizing/creating file in the selected bucket**.
    - **Bucket**: Select your storage bucket.

6. Choose the Runtime Service Account. Ensure that the service account has `storage.objects.list` access to the Google Cloud Storage bucket.

7. Set the following [environment variables](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/configuring/env-var#setting_runtime_environment_variables) for your Cloud Function:

    - `ASTRO_HOME` = `\tmp`
    - `ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` = `<your-deployment-api-key-id>`
    - `ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` = `<your-deployment-api-key-secret>`

8. Add the dependency `google-cloud-storage` to the `requirements.txt` file for your Cloud Function. See [Specifying Dependencies in Python](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/writing/specifying-dependencies-python).

9. Add the following code to `main.py`:

```python
import os
import tarfile
import subprocess
from pathlib import Path
from google.cloud import storage

BUCKET = os.getenv("BUCKET", "my-demo-bucket")


def untar(filename: str, destination: str) -> None:
    with tarfile.open(filename) as file:
        file.extractall(destination)


def run_command(cmd: str) -> None:
    p = subprocess.Popen("set -x; " + cmd, shell=True)
    p.communicate()


def download_to_local(bucket_name: str, gcs_folder: str, local_dir: str = None) -> None:
    """Download the contents of a folder directory
    :param bucket_name: the name of the gcs bucket
    :param gcs_folder: the folder path in the gcs bucket
    :param local_dir: a relative or absolute directory path in the local file system
    """

    ## create a storage client to access GCS objects
    storage_client = storage.Client()
    source_bucket = storage_client.bucket(bucket_name)

    ## get a list of all the files in the bucket folder
    blobs = source_bucket.list_blobs(prefix=gcs_folder)

    ## download each of the dag to local
    for blob in blobs:
        if blob.name.endswith('/'):
            continue

        target = blob.name if local_dir is None \
            else os.path.join(local_dir, os.path.relpath(blob.name, gcs_folder))
        print(target)
        if not os.path.exists(os.path.dirname(target)):
            os.makedirs(os.path.dirname(target))

        blob.download_to_filename(target)
    print("downloaded file")
    

def astro_deploy(event, context) -> None:
    """Triggered by a change to a Cloud Storage bucket.
    :param event: Event payload.
    :param context: Metadata for the event.
    """

    base_dir = '/tmp/astro'
    ## download dag files to temp local storage
    download_to_local(BUCKET, 'dags', f'{base_dir}/dags')
    
    ## download astro cli binary and move to /tmp/astro
    download_to_local(BUCKET, 'cli_binary', base_dir)

    ## deploy to astro
    os.chdir(base_dir)
    untar('./astro_cli.tar.gz', '.')
    run_command('echo y | ./astro dev init')
    run_command(f'./astro deploy --dags')
  ```

10. If you haven't already, deploy your complete Astro project to your Deployment. See [Deploy code](deploy-code.md).
11. Add your DAGs to the `dags` folder in your storage bucket.
12. In the Cloud UI, select a Workspace, click **Deployments**, and then select your Deployment. Confirm that your deploy worked by checking the Deployment **DAG bundle version**. The version's name should include the time that you added the DAGs to your GCS bucket.

Commit message:

Laura's suggestions and changing lambda in GCS to CF

astro/ci-cd-templates/gcs.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: GCS bucket
title: Deploy DAGs to from Google Cloud Storage to Astro
id: gcs
description: Use pre-built Astronomer CI/CD templates to automate deploying Apache Airflow DAGs to Astro using Google Cloud Storage.
---

### Prerequisites

- A Google cloud storage (GCS) bucket.
- An [Astro Deployment](create-deployment.md) with [DAG-only deploys enabled](deploy-code.md#enable-dag-only-deploys-on-a-deployment).
- A [Deployment API key ID and secret](api-keys.md).
- An [Astro project](create-first-dag.md) containing your project configurations.

### DAG-based deploy

This CI/CD template can be used to deploy DAGs from a single GCS bucket to a single Astro Deployment. When you create or modify a DAG in the GCS bucket, a Cloud function triggers and initialises an `astro` project to deploy your DAGs using Astro CLI.

:::info

To deploy any non-DAG code changes to Astro, you need to trigger a standard image-only deploy with your Astro project. When you do this, your Astro project must include the latest version of your DAGs from your GCS bucket. If your Astro project `dags` folder isn't up to date with your GCS DAGs bucket when you trigger this deploy, you will revert your DAGs back to the version hosted in your Astro project.

:::

1. Download the latest Astro CLI binary from [GitHub releases](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-cli/releases), then rename the file to, `astro_cli.tar.gz`. For example, to use Astro CLI version 1.13.0 in your template, download `astro_1.13.0_linux_amd64.tar.gz` and rename it to `astro_cli.tar.gz`.
2. In your GCS bucket, create the following new folders:

    - `dags`
    - `cli_binary`

3. Add `astro_cli.tar.gz` to `cli_binary`.
4. Create a [1st gen Cloud Function](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/console-quickstart-1st-gen#create_a_function) with the Python 3.9 Runtime in the same region as your storage bucket.
5. Create a [Cloud Storage trigger](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/calling/storage) with the following configuration: 

    - **Event provider**: Select **Cloud Storage**.
    - **Event**: Select **On finalizing/creating file in the selected bucket**.
    - **Bucket**: Select your storage bucket.

6. Choose the Runtime Service Account. Ensure that the service account has `storage.objects.list` access to the Google Cloud Storage bucket.

7. Set the following [environment variables](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/configuring/env-var#setting_runtime_environment_variables) for your Cloud Function:

    - `ASTRO_HOME` = `\tmp`
    - `ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` = `<your-deployment-api-key-id>`
    - `ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` = `<your-deployment-api-key-secret>`

8. Add the dependency `google-cloud-storage` to the `requirements.txt` file for your Cloud Function. See [Specifying Dependencies in Python](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/writing/specifying-dependencies-python).

9. Add the following code to `main.py`:

```python
import os
import tarfile
import subprocess
from pathlib import Path
from google.cloud import storage

BUCKET = os.getenv("BUCKET", "my-demo-bucket")


def untar(filename: str, destination: str) -> None:
    with tarfile.open(filename) as file:
        file.extractall(destination)


def run_command(cmd: str) -> None:
    p = subprocess.Popen("set -x; " + cmd, shell=True)
    p.communicate()


def download_to_local(bucket_name: str, gcs_folder: str, local_dir: str = None) -> None:
    """Download the contents of a folder directory
    :param bucket_name: the name of the gcs bucket
    :param gcs_folder: the folder path in the gcs bucket
    :param local_dir: a relative or absolute directory path in the local file system
    """

    ## create a storage client to access GCS objects
    storage_client = storage.Client()
    source_bucket = storage_client.bucket(bucket_name)

    ## get a list of all the files in the bucket folder
    blobs = source_bucket.list_blobs(prefix=gcs_folder)

    ## download each of the dag to local
    for blob in blobs:
        if blob.name.endswith('/'):
            continue

        target = blob.name if local_dir is None \
            else os.path.join(local_dir, os.path.relpath(blob.name, gcs_folder))
        print(target)
        if not os.path.exists(os.path.dirname(target)):
            os.makedirs(os.path.dirname(target))

        blob.download_to_filename(target)
    print("downloaded file")
    

def astro_deploy(event, context) -> None:
    """Triggered by a change to a Cloud Storage bucket.
    :param event: Event payload.
    :param context: Metadata for the event.
    """

    base_dir = '/tmp/astro'
    ## download dag files to temp local storage
    download_to_local(BUCKET, 'dags', f'{base_dir}/dags')
    
    ## download astro cli binary and move to /tmp/astro
    download_to_local(BUCKET, 'cli_binary', base_dir)

    ## deploy to astro
    os.chdir(base_dir)
    untar('./astro_cli.tar.gz', '.')
    run_command('echo y | ./astro dev init')
    run_command(f'./astro deploy --dags')
  ```

10. If you haven't already, deploy your complete Astro project to your Deployment. See [Deploy code](deploy-code.md).
11. Add your DAGs to the `dags` folder in your storage bucket.
12. In the Cloud UI, select a Workspace, click **Deployments**, and then select your Deployment. Confirm that your deploy worked by checking the Deployment **DAG bundle version**. The version's name should include the time that you added the DAGs to your GCS bucket.
