astro/ci-cd-templates/gitlab.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: GitLab
title: Astro CI/CD templates for GitLab
id: gitlab
description: Use pre-built Astronomer CI/CD templates to automate deploying Apache Airflow DAGs to Astro using GitLab.
---

Use the following CI/CD templates to automate deployment of your Astro project from a [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/) repository to Astro.

The templates for GitLab use the [image-only deploy](template-overview.md#template-types) and smart deploys, which is a combination of image-based and [DAG-only deploy](astro/deploy-code).

If you have one Deployment and one environment on Astro, use the [single branch implementation](#single-branch-implementation). If you have multiple Deployments that support development and production environments, use the [multiple branch implementation](#multiple-branch-implementation). If you want your CI/CD process to automatically decide which deploy strategy to choose, see [smart deploy templates](#smart-deploy-templates)

To learn more about CI/CD on Astro, see [Choose a CI/CD strategy](set-up-ci-cd.md).

## Prerequisites

- An [Astro project](develop-project.md#create-an-astro-project) hosted in a GitLab repository.
- An [Astro Deployment](create-deployment.md).
- Either a [Workspace API token](workspace-api-tokens.md) or an [Organization API token](organization-api-tokens.md).

Each CI/CD template implementation might have additional requirements.

## Image-only templates

### Single branch implementation

Use this template to push code to from a GitLab repository to Astro.

1. In your GitLab project, [follow GitLab's documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/#for-a-project) to set the following environment variables for a project:

    - `ASTRO_API_TOKEN`: The value for your Workspace or Organization API token.
    - `DEPLOYMENT_ID`: The ID of your Astro Deployment. You can copy this **ID** from your Deployment's home page in the Cloud UI.

    Astronomer recommends to always mask the value of your API token to prevent it from getting printed in plain-text in the logs. You can also set API token as an [external secret](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/secrets/index.html) for an extra layer of security.

2. Go to **Build** > **Pipeline Editor**, paste and commit the following:

  ```yaml
  astro_deploy:
    stage: deploy
    image: docker:latest
    services:
      - docker:dind
    
    variables:
        ASTRO_API_TOKEN: ${ASTRO_API_TOKEN}
        DEPLOYMENT_ID: ${DEPLOYMENT_ID}

    before_script:
      - apk add --update curl && rm -rf /var/cache/apk/*
      - apk add bash
    script:
      - (curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | bash -s)
      - astro deploy -f $DEPLOYMENT_ID
    only:
      - main
  ```

### Multiple branch implementation

Use this template to push code to a development and a production Deployment in Astro based on your GitLab project's branch name.

1. In your GitLab project, [follow GitLab's documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/#for-a-project) to set the following environment variables for a project:

    - `PROD_ASTRO_API_TOKEN`: The value of your production Workspace or Organization API token.
    - `PROD_DEPLOYMENT_ID`: The ID of your Astro Deployment. You can copy this **ID** from your production Deployment's home page in the Cloud UI.
    - `DEV_ASTRO_API_TOKEN`: The value of your development Workspace or Organization API token.
    - `DEV_DEPLOYMENT_ID`: The ID of your Astro Deployment. You can copy this **ID** from your development Deployment's home page in the Cloud UI.

    Astronomer recommends to always mask the value of your API token to prevent it from getting printed in plain-text in the logs. You can also set API token as an [external secret](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/secrets/index.html) for an extra layer of security.

  :::tip

  When you create a CI/CD variable that will be used in multiple branches, you might want to protect where you use them. Otherwise, uncheck the `Protect variable` flag when you create the variable in GitLab. See GitLab's documentation on [protected branches](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/protected_branches.html) and [protected tags](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/protected_tags.html) for more details. 

  :::

2. Go to the **Editor** option in your project's CI/CD section and commit the following:

  ```yaml
  astro_deploy_dev:
    stage: deploy
    image: docker:latest
    services:
      - docker:dind
    variables:
        ASTRO_API_TOKEN: ${DEV_ASTRO_API_TOKEN}
        DEPLOYMENT_ID: ${DEV_DEPLOYMENT_ID}
    before_script:
      - apk add --update curl && rm -rf /var/cache/apk/*
      - apk add bash
    script:
      - (curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | bash -s)
      - astro deploy -f $DEPLOYMENT_ID
    only:
      - dev

  astro_deploy_prod:
    stage: deploy
    image: docker:latest
    services:
      - docker:dind
    variables:
        ASTRO_API_TOKEN: ${PROD_ASTRO_API_TOKEN}
        DEPLOYMENT_ID: ${PROD_DEPLOYMENT_ID}
    before_script:
      - apk add --update curl && rm -rf /var/cache/apk/*
      - apk add bash
      - apk add jq
    script:
      - (curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | bash -s)
      - astro deploy -f $DEPLOYMENT_ID
    only:
      - main
  ```

## Smart deploy templates

The DAG-based template uses the `--dags` flag in the Astro CLI to push DAG changes to Astro. These CI/CD pipelines deploy your DAGs only when files in your `dags` folder are modified, and they deploy the rest of your Astro project as a Docker image when other files or directories are modified. For more information about the benefits of this workflow, see [Deploy DAGs only](astro/deploy-code.md).

### Single branch implementation

Use this template to push code to from a GitLab repository to Astro.

1. In your GitLab project, [follow GitLab's documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/#for-a-project) to set the following environment variables for a project:

    - `ASTRO_API_TOKEN`: The value for your Workspace or Organization API token.
    - `DEPLOYMENT_ID`: The ID of your Astro Deployment. You can copy this **ID** from your Deployment's home page in the Cloud UI.

    Astronomer recommends to always mask the value of your API token to prevent it from getting printed in plain-text in the logs. You can also set API token as an [external secret](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/secrets/index.html) for an extra layer of security.

2. Go to the **Editor** option in your project's CI/CD section and commit the following:
   
    ```yaml
    astro_smart_deploy:
      stage: deploy
      image: docker:latest
      services:
        - docker:dind
      variables:
        ASTRO_API_TOKEN: ${ASTRO_API_TOKEN}
        DAG_FOLDER: "dags"
        DEPLOYMENT_ID: ${DEPLOYMENT_ID}
      before_script:
        - apk add --update curl && rm -rf /var/cache/apk/*
        - apk add git
        - apk add bash
      script:
        - (curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | bash -s)
        - files=$(git diff --name-only $(git rev-parse HEAD~1) -- .)
        - dags_only=1
        - echo "$DAG_FOLDER"
        - echo "$files"
        - for file in $files; do
        -   echo "$file"
        -   if [[ "$file" != "$DAG_FOLDER"* ]]; then
        -     echo "$file is not a dag, triggering a full image build"
        -     dags_only=0
        -     break
        -   else
        -     echo "just a DAG"
        -   fi
        - done
        - if [[ $dags_only == 1 ]]; then
        -   echo "doing dag-only deploy"
        -   astro deploy --dags $DEPLOYMENT_ID
        - elif [[ $dags_only == 0 ]]; then
        -   echo "doing image deploy"
        -   astro deploy -f $DEPLOYMENT_ID
        - fi
      only:
        - main
    ```

Commit message:

change github action templates and use diff terms for dag deploys

astro/ci-cd-templates/gitlab.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: GitLab
title: Astro CI/CD templates for GitLab
id: gitlab
description: Use pre-built Astronomer CI/CD templates to automate deploying Apache Airflow DAGs to Astro using GitLab.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Use the following CI/CD templates to automate deployment of your Astro project from a [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/) repository to Astro.

Read the following sections to choose the right template for your project. The templates for GitLab include the image deploy templates and DAG deploy templates.

If you have one Deployment and one environment on Astro, use the [single branch implementation](#single-branch-implementation). If you have multiple Deployments that support development and production environments, use the [multiple branch implementation](#multiple-branch-implementation). If you want your CI/CD process to automatically decide which deploy strategy to choose, see [DAG deploy templates](#smart-deploy-templates).

For more information on available generic templates or to configure your own, see [Template overview](template-overview.md). To learn more about CI/CD on Astro, see [Choose a CI/CD strategy](set-up-ci-cd.md).

## Prerequisites

- An [Astro project](develop-project.md#create-an-astro-project) hosted in a GitLab repository.
- An [Astro Deployment](create-deployment.md).
- Either a [Workspace API token](workspace-api-tokens.md) or an [Organization API token](organization-api-tokens.md).

Each CI/CD template implementation might have additional requirements.

## Image deploy templates

<Tabs
    defaultValue="singlebranch"
    groupId= "image-templates"
    values={[
        {label: 'Single branch', value: 'singlebranch'},
        {label: 'Multiple branch', value: 'multibranch'},
    ]}>

<TabItem value="singlebranch">

Use this template to push code to from a GitLab repository to Astro.

1. In your GitLab project, [follow GitLab's documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/#for-a-project) to set the following environment variables for a project:

    - `ASTRO_API_TOKEN`: The value for your Workspace or Organization API token.
    - `DEPLOYMENT_ID`: The ID of your Astro Deployment. You can copy this **ID** from your Deployment's home page in the Cloud UI.

    Astronomer recommends to always mask the value of your API token to prevent it from getting printed in plain-text in the logs. You can also set API token as an [external secret](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/secrets/index.html) for an extra layer of security.

2. Go to **Build** > **Pipeline Editor**, paste and commit the following:

  ```yaml
  astro_deploy:
    stage: deploy
    image: docker:latest
    services:
      - docker:dind
    
    variables:
        ASTRO_API_TOKEN: ${ASTRO_API_TOKEN}
        DEPLOYMENT_ID: ${DEPLOYMENT_ID}

    before_script:
      - apk add --update curl && rm -rf /var/cache/apk/*
      - apk add bash
    script:
      - (curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | bash -s)
      - astro deploy -f $DEPLOYMENT_ID
    only:
      - main
  ```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="multibranch">

Use this template to push code to a development and a production Deployment in Astro based on your GitLab project's branch name.

1. In your GitLab project, [follow GitLab's documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/#for-a-project) to set the following environment variables for a project:

    - `PROD_ASTRO_API_TOKEN`: The value of your production Workspace or Organization API token.
    - `PROD_DEPLOYMENT_ID`: The ID of your Astro Deployment. You can copy this **ID** from your production Deployment's home page in the Cloud UI.
    - `DEV_ASTRO_API_TOKEN`: The value of your development Workspace or Organization API token.
    - `DEV_DEPLOYMENT_ID`: The ID of your Astro Deployment. You can copy this **ID** from your development Deployment's home page in the Cloud UI.

    Astronomer recommends to always mask the value of your API token to prevent it from getting printed in plain-text in the logs. You can also set API token as an [external secret](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/secrets/index.html) for an extra layer of security.

  :::tip

  When you create a CI/CD variable that will be used in multiple branches, you might want to protect where you use them. Otherwise, uncheck the `Protect variable` flag when you create the variable in GitLab. See GitLab's documentation on [protected branches](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/protected_branches.html) and [protected tags](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/protected_tags.html) for more details. 

  :::

2. Go to the **Editor** option in your project's CI/CD section and commit the following:

  ```yaml
  astro_deploy_dev:
    stage: deploy
    image: docker:latest
    services:
      - docker:dind
    variables:
        ASTRO_API_TOKEN: ${DEV_ASTRO_API_TOKEN}
        DEPLOYMENT_ID: ${DEV_DEPLOYMENT_ID}
    before_script:
      - apk add --update curl && rm -rf /var/cache/apk/*
      - apk add bash
    script:
      - (curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | bash -s)
      - astro deploy -f $DEPLOYMENT_ID
    only:
      - dev

  astro_deploy_prod:
    stage: deploy
    image: docker:latest
    services:
      - docker:dind
    variables:
        ASTRO_API_TOKEN: ${PROD_ASTRO_API_TOKEN}
        DEPLOYMENT_ID: ${PROD_DEPLOYMENT_ID}
    before_script:
      - apk add --update curl && rm -rf /var/cache/apk/*
      - apk add bash
      - apk add jq
    script:
      - (curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | bash -s)
      - astro deploy -f $DEPLOYMENT_ID
    only:
      - main
  ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## DAG deploy templates

The DAG-based template uses the `--dags` flag in the Astro CLI to push DAG changes to Astro. These CI/CD pipelines deploy your DAGs only when files in your `dags` folder are modified, and they deploy the rest of your Astro project as a Docker image when other files or directories are modified. For more information about the benefits of this workflow, see [Deploy DAGs only](astro/deploy-code.md).

### Single branch implementation

Use this template to push code to from a GitLab repository to Astro.

1. In your GitLab project, [follow GitLab's documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/#for-a-project) to set the following environment variables for a project:

    - `ASTRO_API_TOKEN`: The value for your Workspace or Organization API token.
    - `DEPLOYMENT_ID`: The ID of your Astro Deployment. You can copy this **ID** from your Deployment's home page in the Cloud UI.

    Astronomer recommends to always mask the value of your API token to prevent it from getting printed in plain-text in the logs. You can also set API token as an [external secret](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/secrets/index.html) for an extra layer of security.

2. Go to the **Editor** option in your project's CI/CD section and commit the following:
   
    ```yaml
    astro_smart_deploy:
      stage: deploy
      image: docker:latest
      services:
        - docker:dind
      variables:
        ASTRO_API_TOKEN: ${ASTRO_API_TOKEN}
        DAG_FOLDER: "dags"
        DEPLOYMENT_ID: ${DEPLOYMENT_ID}
      before_script:
        - apk add --update curl && rm -rf /var/cache/apk/*
        - apk add git
        - apk add bash
      script:
        - (curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | bash -s)
        - files=$(git diff --name-only $(git rev-parse HEAD~1) -- .)
        - dags_only=1
        - echo "$DAG_FOLDER"
        - echo "$files"
        - for file in $files; do
        -   echo "$file"
        -   if [[ "$file" != "$DAG_FOLDER"* ]]; then
        -     echo "$file is not a dag, triggering a full image build"
        -     dags_only=0
        -     break
        -   else
        -     echo "just a DAG"
        -   fi
        - done
        - if [[ $dags_only == 1 ]]; then
        -   echo "doing dag-only deploy"
        -   astro deploy --dags $DEPLOYMENT_ID
        - elif [[ $dags_only == 0 ]]; then
        -   echo "doing image deploy"
        -   astro deploy -f $DEPLOYMENT_ID
        - fi
      only:
        - main
    ```
