astro/airflow-api.md, before:

---
title: 'Make requests to the Airflow REST API'
sidebar_label: 'Airflow REST API'
id: airflow-api
---

<head>
  <meta name="description" content="Learn how to make requests to the Airflow REST API and how you can use the Airflow REST API to automate Airflow workflows in your Deployments. Common examples of API requests are provided." />
  <meta name="og:description" content="Learn how to make requests to the Airflow REST API and how you can use the Airflow REST API to automate Airflow workflows in your Deployments. Common examples of API requests are provided." />
</head>

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

You can use the Airflow [REST API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html) to automate Airflow workflows in your Deployments on Astro. For example, you can externally trigger a DAG run without accessing your Deployment directly by making an HTTP request in Python or cURL to the [dagRuns endpoint](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/post_dag_run) in the Airflow REST API.

To test Airflow API calls in a local Airflow environment running with the Astro CLI, see [Test and Troubleshoot Locally](test-and-troubleshoot-locally.md#make-requests-to-the-airflow-rest-api).

:::info

Updates to the Airflow REST API are released in new Airflow versions and new releases don’t have a separate release cycle or versioning scheme. To take advantage of specific Airflow REST API functionality, you might need to upgrade Astro Runtime. See [Upgrade Runtime](upgrade-runtime.md) and the [Airflow release notes](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/release_notes.html).

:::

## Prerequisites

- A Deployment on Astro.
- A [Workspace API token](workspace-api-tokens.md) or an [Organization API token](organization-api-tokens.md).
- [cURL](https://curl.se/) or, if using Python, the [Requests library](https://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/index.html).
- The [Astro CLI](cli/overview.md).

## Step 1: Retrieve your access token

<Tabs groupId="step-1-retrieve-your-access-token">

<TabItem value="workspace" label="Workspace token (Recommended)">

Workspace API tokens allow users to programmatically perform Workspace actions as well as Airflow API access. 

Keep in mind the following when creating Workspace API tokens for Airflow REST API access:

- You can create these tokens using the Cloud UI only and can also set the expiration period for it. 
- You can assign [Workspace roles](user-permissions.md#workspace-roles) to the API token during creation based on the actions you want to perform.
- Workspace API tokens are an easy way to control access to all your Deployments that you want to manage with same set of permissions.

Refer to [Workspace API tokens](workspace-api-tokens.md#create-a-workspace-api-token) to create a token.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="organization" label="Organization token">

Organization API tokens allow users to programmatically perform Organization operations in Astro as well as Airflow API access. 

Keep in mind the following when creating Organization API tokens for Airflow REST API access:

- You can create these tokens using the Cloud UI only and can also set the expiration period for it. 
- Organization API token with `Organization Member` role will not be able to access any Workspaces or Deployments. You will need to give permission to it to a specific Workspace. See Give Workspace permissions to an Organization token for more details.
- You can assign [Organization roles](user-permissions.md#user-permissions#organization-roles) to the API token during creation based on the actions you want to perform.
- Organization API tokens are an easy way to control access to all your Workspaces and Deployments, so you might want to use and share them with caution.

Refer to [Organization API tokens](organization-api-tokens.md#create-an-organization-api-token) to create a token.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="deployment" label="Deployment API key">

:::caution
Deployment API keys will soon be phased out in favor of Deployment-level API tokens. Astronomer recommends only using Workspace API tokens until Deployment API tokens are released. 
:::

To retrieve an access token using [cURL](https://curl.se/), run the following API request with your Deployment API key ID and secret:

```bash
curl --location --request POST "https://auth.astronomer.io/oauth/token" \
        --header "content-type: application/json" \
        --data-raw '{
            "client_id": "<api-key-id>",
            "client_secret": "<api-key-secret>",
            "audience": "astronomer-ee",
            "grant_type": "client_credentials"}'
```

To retrieve an Astro access token using Python, use the [`requests`](https://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/index.html) library to make your API request:

```python
def get_api_token() -> str:
  r = requests.post(
      "https://auth.astronomer.io/oauth/token",
      json={
          "client_id": "<api-key-id>",
          "client_secret": "<api-key-secret>",
          "audience": "astronomer-ee",
          "grant_type": "client_credentials"
      }
  )
  r.raise_for_status()
  return r.json()
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step 2: Retrieve the Deployment URL

Run the following command to retrieve a Deployment URL:

```bash
astro deployment inspect -n <deployment-name> -k metadata.webserver_url
```

The Deployment URL is used to access your Astro Deployment's Airflow UI. It includes the name of your Organization and first 7 letters of your Deployment ID. 

For example, the Deployment URL for an Organization named `mycompany` with the Deployment ID `dhbhijp0vt68400dj40tmc8virf` is `mycompany.astronomer.run/dhbhijp0`.

## Step 2: Make an Airflow API request

You can execute requests against any endpoint that is listed in the [Airflow REST API reference](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html).

To make a request based on Airflow documentation, make sure to:

- Use the Astro access token from Step 1 for authentication.
- Replace `airflow.apache.org` with your Deployment URL from Step 1.

## Example API Requests

The following are common examples of Airflow REST API requests that you can run against a Deployment on Astro.

### List DAGs

To retrieve a list of all DAGs in a Deployment, you can run a `GET` request to the [`dags` endpoint](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/get_dags)

#### cURL

```sh
curl -X GET https://<your-deployment-url>/api/v1/dags \
   -H 'Cache-Control: no-cache' \
   -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your-access-token>'
```

#### Python

```python
import requests
token = "<your-access-token>"
deployment_url = "<your-deployment-url>"
response = requests.get(
   url=f"https://{deployment_url}/api/v1/dags",
   headers={"Authorization": f"Bearer {token}"}
)
print(response.json())
# Prints data about all DAGs in your Deployment
```

### Trigger a DAG run

You can trigger a DAG run by executing a `POST` request to Airflow's [`dagRuns` endpoint](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/post_dag_run).

This will trigger a DAG run for the DAG you specify with a `logical_date` value of `NOW()`, which is equivalent to clicking the **Play** button in the main **DAGs** view of the Airflow UI.

#### cURL

```sh
curl -X POST <your-deployment-url>/api/v1/dags/<your-dag-id>/dagRuns \
   -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
   -H 'Cache-Control: no-cache' \
   -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your-access-token>' \
   -d '{}'
```

#### Python

```python
import requests
token = "<your-access-token>"
deployment_url = "<your-deployment-url>"
dag_id = "<your-dag-id>"
response = requests.post(
    url=f"{deployment_url}/api/v1/dags/{dag_id}/dagRuns",
    headers={
        "Authorization": f"Bearer {token}",
        "Content-Type": "application/json"
    },
    data='{}'
)
print(response.json())
# Prints metadata of the DAG run that was just triggered
```

### Trigger a DAG run by date

You can also specify a `logical_date` at the time in which you wish to trigger the DAG run by passing the `logical_date` with the desired timestamp with the request's `data` field. The timestamp string is expressed in UTC and must be specified in the format `"YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ"`, where:

- `YYYY` represents the year.
- `MM` represents the month.
- `DD` represents the day.
- `HH` represents the hour.
- `MM` represents the minute.
- `SS` represents the second.
- `Z` stands for "Zulu" time, which represents UTC.

#### cURL

```sh
curl -v -X POST https://<your-deployment-url>/api/v1/dags/<your-dag-id>/dagRuns \
   -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your-access-token>' \
   -H 'Cache-Control: no-cache' \
   -H 'content-type: application/json' \
   -d '{"logical_date":"2022-11-16T11:34:00Z"}'
```

#### Python

Using Python:
```python
import requests
token = "<your-access-token>"
deployment_url = "<your-deployment-url>"
dag_id = "<your-dag-id>"
response = requests.post(
    url=f"https://{deployment_url}/api/v1/dags/{dag_id}/dagRuns",
    headers={
        "Authorization": f"Bearer {token}",
        "Content-Type": "application/json"
    },
    data='{"logical_date": "2021-11-16T11:34:01Z"}'
)
print(response.json())
# Prints metadata of the DAG run that was just triggered
```

### Pause a DAG

You can pause a DAG by executing a `PATCH` command against the [`dag` endpoint](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/patch_dag).

Replace `<your-dag-id>` with your own value.

#### cURL

```sh
curl -X PATCH https://<your-deployment-url>/api/v1/dags/<your-dag-id> \
   -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
   -H 'Cache-Control: no-cache' \
   -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your-access-token>' \
   -d '{"is_paused": true}'
```

#### Python

```python
import requests
token = "<your-access-token>"
deployment_url = "<your-deployment-url>"
dag_id = "<your-dag-id>"
response = requests.patch(
    url=f"https://{deployment_url}/api/v1/dags/{dag_id}",
    headers={
        "Authorization": f"Bearer {token}",
        "Content-Type": "application/json"
    },
    data='{"is_paused": true}'
)
print(response.json())
# Prints data about the DAG with id <dag-id>
```
## Trigger DAG runs across Deployments

You can use the Airflow REST API to make a request in one Deployment that triggers a DAG run in a different Deployment. This is sometimes necessary when you have interdependent workflows across multiple Deployments. On Astro, you can do this for any Deployment in any Workspace or cluster. 

This topic has guidelines on how to trigger a DAG run, but you can modify the example DAG provided to trigger any request that's supported in the Airflow REST API.

1. On the target Deployment, create an API key ID and API key secret. See [Create an API key](api-keys.md#create-an-api-key).

2. On the triggering Deployment, set the API key ID and API key secret from the target Deployment as `KEY_ID` and `KEY_SECRET` environment variables in the Cloud UI. Make `KEY_SECRET` secret. See [Set environment variables on Astro](environment-variables.md).

3. In your DAG, write a task called `get-token` that uses your Deployment API key ID and secret to make a request to the Astronomer API that retrieves the access token that's required for authentication to the Airflow API. In another task called `trigger_external_dag`, use the access token to make a request to the `dagRuns` endpoint of the Airflow REST API. Make sure to replace `<target-deployment-url>` with your own value. For example:

    ````python
    import requests
    from datetime import datetime
    import os
    from airflow.decorators import dag, task
    KEY_ID = os.environ.get("KEY_ID")
    KEY_SECRET = os.environ.get("KEY_SECRET")
    AIRFLOW_URL = "<target-deployment-url>"
    @dag(schedule="@daily",
        start_date=datetime(2022, 1, 1),
        catchup=False)
    def triggering_dag():
        @task
        def get_token():
            response = requests.post("https://auth.astronomer.io/oauth/token",
                                    json={"audience": "astronomer-ee",
                                        "grant_type": "client_credentials",
                                        "client_id": {KEY_ID},
                                        "client_secret": {KEY_SECRET})
            return response.json()<"access_token">
        @task
        def trigger_external_dag(token):
            dag_id = "target"
            response = requests.post(
                url=f"{AIRFLOW_URL}/api/v1/dags/{dag_id}/dagRuns",
                headers={
                    "Authorization": f"Bearer {token}",
                    "Content-Type": "application/json"
                },
                data='{"logical_date": "' + datetime.utcnow().isoformat().split(".")[0] + 'Z"}'
            )
            print(response.json())
        trigger_external_dag(get_token())
    a = triggering_dag()
    ```

Commit message:

remove detailed reference and add simple to follow instruction

astro/airflow-api.md, after:

---
title: 'Make requests to the Airflow REST API'
sidebar_label: 'Airflow REST API'
id: airflow-api
---

<head>
  <meta name="description" content="Learn how to make requests to the Airflow REST API and how you can use the Airflow REST API to automate Airflow workflows in your Deployments. Common examples of API requests are provided." />
  <meta name="og:description" content="Learn how to make requests to the Airflow REST API and how you can use the Airflow REST API to automate Airflow workflows in your Deployments. Common examples of API requests are provided." />
</head>

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

You can use the Airflow [REST API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html) to automate Airflow workflows in your Deployments on Astro. For example, you can externally trigger a DAG run without accessing your Deployment directly by making an HTTP request in Python or cURL to the [dagRuns endpoint](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/post_dag_run) in the Airflow REST API.

To test Airflow API calls in a local Airflow environment running with the Astro CLI, see [Test and Troubleshoot Locally](test-and-troubleshoot-locally.md#make-requests-to-the-airflow-rest-api).

:::info

Updates to the Airflow REST API are released in new Airflow versions and new releases don’t have a separate release cycle or versioning scheme. To take advantage of specific Airflow REST API functionality, you might need to upgrade Astro Runtime. See [Upgrade Runtime](upgrade-runtime.md) and the [Airflow release notes](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/release_notes.html).

:::

## Prerequisites

- A Deployment on Astro.
- A [Workspace API token](workspace-api-tokens.md) or an [Organization API token](organization-api-tokens.md).
- [cURL](https://curl.se/) or, if using Python, the [Requests library](https://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/index.html).
- The [Astro CLI](cli/overview.md).

## Step 1: Retrieve your access token

<Tabs groupId="step-1-retrieve-your-access-token">

<TabItem value="workspace" label="Workspace token (Recommended)">

You can follow the steps in [Create a Workspace API token](workspace-api-tokens.md#create-a-workspace-api-token) to create your token. You will need to save the token on creation in order to re-use it later.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="organization" label="Organization token">

You can follow the steps in [Create a Orgaization API token](organization-api-tokens.md#create-an-organization-api-token) to create your token. You will need to save the token on creation in order to re-use it later.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="deployment" label="Deployment API key">

:::caution
Deployment API keys will soon be phased out in favor of Deployment-level API tokens. Astronomer recommends only using Workspace API tokens until Deployment API tokens are released. 
:::

To retrieve an access token using [cURL](https://curl.se/), run the following API request with your Deployment API key ID and secret:

```bash
curl --location --request POST "https://auth.astronomer.io/oauth/token" \
        --header "content-type: application/json" \
        --data-raw '{
            "client_id": "<api-key-id>",
            "client_secret": "<api-key-secret>",
            "audience": "astronomer-ee",
            "grant_type": "client_credentials"}'
```

To retrieve an Astro access token using Python, use the [`requests`](https://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/index.html) library to make your API request:

```python
def get_api_token() -> str:
  r = requests.post(
      "https://auth.astronomer.io/oauth/token",
      json={
          "client_id": "<api-key-id>",
          "client_secret": "<api-key-secret>",
          "audience": "astronomer-ee",
          "grant_type": "client_credentials"
      }
  )
  r.raise_for_status()
  return r.json()
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step 2: Retrieve the Deployment URL

Run the following command to retrieve a Deployment URL:

```bash
astro deployment inspect -n <deployment-name> -k metadata.webserver_url
```

The Deployment URL is used to access your Astro Deployment's Airflow UI. It includes the name of your Organization and first 7 letters of your Deployment ID. 

For example, the Deployment URL for an Organization named `mycompany` with the Deployment ID `dhbhijp0vt68400dj40tmc8virf` is `mycompany.astronomer.run/dhbhijp0`.

## Step 3: Make an Airflow API request

You can execute requests against any endpoint that is listed in the [Airflow REST API reference](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html).

To make a request based on Airflow documentation, make sure to:

- Use the Astro access token from Step 1 for authentication.
- Replace `airflow.apache.org` with your Deployment URL from Step 1.

## Example API Requests

The following are common examples of Airflow REST API requests that you can run against a Deployment on Astro.

### List DAGs

To retrieve a list of all DAGs in a Deployment, you can run a `GET` request to the [`dags` endpoint](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/get_dags)

#### cURL

```sh
curl -X GET https://<your-deployment-url>/api/v1/dags \
   -H 'Cache-Control: no-cache' \
   -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your-access-token>'
```

#### Python

```python
import requests
token = "<your-access-token>"
deployment_url = "<your-deployment-url>"
response = requests.get(
   url=f"https://{deployment_url}/api/v1/dags",
   headers={"Authorization": f"Bearer {token}"}
)
print(response.json())
# Prints data about all DAGs in your Deployment
```

### Trigger a DAG run

You can trigger a DAG run by executing a `POST` request to Airflow's [`dagRuns` endpoint](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/post_dag_run).

This will trigger a DAG run for the DAG you specify with a `logical_date` value of `NOW()`, which is equivalent to clicking the **Play** button in the main **DAGs** view of the Airflow UI.

#### cURL

```sh
curl -X POST <your-deployment-url>/api/v1/dags/<your-dag-id>/dagRuns \
   -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
   -H 'Cache-Control: no-cache' \
   -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your-access-token>' \
   -d '{}'
```

#### Python

```python
import requests
token = "<your-access-token>"
deployment_url = "<your-deployment-url>"
dag_id = "<your-dag-id>"
response = requests.post(
    url=f"{deployment_url}/api/v1/dags/{dag_id}/dagRuns",
    headers={
        "Authorization": f"Bearer {token}",
        "Content-Type": "application/json"
    },
    data='{}'
)
print(response.json())
# Prints metadata of the DAG run that was just triggered
```

### Trigger a DAG run by date

You can also specify a `logical_date` at the time in which you wish to trigger the DAG run by passing the `logical_date` with the desired timestamp with the request's `data` field. The timestamp string is expressed in UTC and must be specified in the format `"YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ"`, where:

- `YYYY` represents the year.
- `MM` represents the month.
- `DD` represents the day.
- `HH` represents the hour.
- `MM` represents the minute.
- `SS` represents the second.
- `Z` stands for "Zulu" time, which represents UTC.

#### cURL

```sh
curl -v -X POST https://<your-deployment-url>/api/v1/dags/<your-dag-id>/dagRuns \
   -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your-access-token>' \
   -H 'Cache-Control: no-cache' \
   -H 'content-type: application/json' \
   -d '{"logical_date":"2022-11-16T11:34:00Z"}'
```

#### Python

Using Python:
```python
import requests
token = "<your-access-token>"
deployment_url = "<your-deployment-url>"
dag_id = "<your-dag-id>"
response = requests.post(
    url=f"https://{deployment_url}/api/v1/dags/{dag_id}/dagRuns",
    headers={
        "Authorization": f"Bearer {token}",
        "Content-Type": "application/json"
    },
    data='{"logical_date": "2021-11-16T11:34:01Z"}'
)
print(response.json())
# Prints metadata of the DAG run that was just triggered
```

### Pause a DAG

You can pause a DAG by executing a `PATCH` command against the [`dag` endpoint](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/patch_dag).

Replace `<your-dag-id>` with your own value.

#### cURL

```sh
curl -X PATCH https://<your-deployment-url>/api/v1/dags/<your-dag-id> \
   -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
   -H 'Cache-Control: no-cache' \
   -H 'Authorization: Bearer <your-access-token>' \
   -d '{"is_paused": true}'
```

#### Python

```python
import requests
token = "<your-access-token>"
deployment_url = "<your-deployment-url>"
dag_id = "<your-dag-id>"
response = requests.patch(
    url=f"https://{deployment_url}/api/v1/dags/{dag_id}",
    headers={
        "Authorization": f"Bearer {token}",
        "Content-Type": "application/json"
    },
    data='{"is_paused": true}'
)
print(response.json())
# Prints data about the DAG with id <dag-id>
```
## Trigger DAG runs across Deployments

You can use the Airflow REST API to make a request in one Deployment that triggers a DAG run in a different Deployment. This is sometimes necessary when you have interdependent workflows across multiple Deployments. On Astro, you can do this for any Deployment in any Workspace or cluster. 

This topic has guidelines on how to trigger a DAG run, but you can modify the example DAG provided to trigger any request that's supported in the Airflow REST API.

1. On the target Deployment, create an API key ID and API key secret. See [Create an API key](api-keys.md#create-an-api-key).

2. On the triggering Deployment, set the API key ID and API key secret from the target Deployment as `KEY_ID` and `KEY_SECRET` environment variables in the Cloud UI. Make `KEY_SECRET` secret. See [Set environment variables on Astro](environment-variables.md).

3. In your DAG, write a task called `get-token` that uses your Deployment API key ID and secret to make a request to the Astronomer API that retrieves the access token that's required for authentication to the Airflow API. In another task called `trigger_external_dag`, use the access token to make a request to the `dagRuns` endpoint of the Airflow REST API. Make sure to replace `<target-deployment-url>` with your own value. For example:

    ````python
    import requests
    from datetime import datetime
    import os
    from airflow.decorators import dag, task
    KEY_ID = os.environ.get("KEY_ID")
    KEY_SECRET = os.environ.get("KEY_SECRET")
    AIRFLOW_URL = "<target-deployment-url>"
    @dag(schedule="@daily",
        start_date=datetime(2022, 1, 1),
        catchup=False)
    def triggering_dag():
        @task
        def get_token():
            response = requests.post("https://auth.astronomer.io/oauth/token",
                                    json={"audience": "astronomer-ee",
                                        "grant_type": "client_credentials",
                                        "client_id": {KEY_ID},
                                        "client_secret": {KEY_SECRET})
            return response.json()<"access_token">
        @task
        def trigger_external_dag(token):
            dag_id = "target"
            response = requests.post(
                url=f"{AIRFLOW_URL}/api/v1/dags/{dag_id}/dagRuns",
                headers={
                    "Authorization": f"Bearer {token}",
                    "Content-Type": "application/json"
                },
                data='{"logical_date": "' + datetime.utcnow().isoformat().split(".")[0] + 'Z"}'
            )
            print(response.json())
        trigger_external_dag(get_token())
    a = triggering_dag()
    ```
