astro/create-dedicated-cluster.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: 'Create a dedicated cluster'
title: 'Create a dedicated Astro cluster'
id: 'create-dedicated-cluster'
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

A _dedicated cluster_ exclusively runs Deployments from your Organization within a single-tenant environment on Astronomer's cloud. Dedicated clusters provide more configuration options for regions, connectivity, and security than standard clusters. You might want to create a dedicated cluster if:

- You need to connect Astronomer's cloud to an external cloud using VPC peering. Standard clusters are compatible with all other supported connection types.
- You want more options for the region your cluster is hosted in. 
- You otherwise want to keep your Deployments as isolated as possible. 

Dedicated clusters offer the self-service convenience of a fully managed service while respecting the need to keep data private, secure, and within a single-tenant environment. If you don't need the aforementioned features, you can use one of the standard clusters when you [Create a Deployment](create-deployment.md).

## Setup

<Tabs
    defaultValue="aws"
    groupId= "create-a-cluster"
    values={[
        {label: 'AWS', value: 'aws'},
        {label: 'GCP', value: 'gcp'},
        {label: 'Azure', value: 'azure'},
    ]}>

<TabItem value="aws">

1. In the Cloud UI, click the name of of your Workspace in the upper left corner, then click **Organization Settings**.
   
2. Click **Cluster** > **+ Cluster**.
  
3. Configure the following details about your cluster:

    - **Cloud Provider**: Select **AWS**.
    - **Name**: The name for your cluster.
    - **Region**: Select the region that you want your cluster to run in.
    - **VPC Subnet Range**: Provide a subnet range for Astro to connect to your existing AWS resources through VPC peering. The default is `172.20.0.0/20`.
  
4. Click **Create cluster**. After Astro finishes creating the cluster, users in your Organization can select the cluster when they [create a Deployment](create-deployment.md). 
   
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="gcp">

1. In the Cloud UI, click the name of of your Workspace in the upper left corner, then click **Organization Settings**.
   
2. Click **Cluster** > **+ Cluster**.
   
3. Configure the following details about your cluster:

    - **Cloud Provider**: Select **GCP**.
    - **Name**: The name for your cluster.
    - **Region**: Select the region that your cluster runs in.
    - **Subnet CIDR**: Specify the range used by nodes in your GKE cluster (Default: `172.20.0.0/22`).
    - **Pod CIDR**: Specify the range used by GKE Pods (Default: `172.21.0.0/19`).
    - **Service Address CIDR**: Specify the range used by GKE services (Default: `172.22.0.0/22`).
    - **Service VPC Peering**: Specify the range used by Private Service connections (Default: `172.23.0.0/20`).
   
4. Click **Create cluster**. After Astro finishes creating the cluster, users in your Organization can select the cluster when they [create a Deployment](create-deployment.md). 

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="azure">

1. In the Cloud UI, click the name of of your Workspace in the upper left corner, then click **Organization Settings**.
   
2. Click **Cluster** > **+ Cluster**.
   
3. Configure the following details about your cluster:

    - **Cloud Provider**: Select **Azure**.
    - **Name**: The name for your cluster.
    - **Region**: Select the region that you want your cluster to run in.
    - **VPC Subnet Range**: Provide a subnet range for Astro to connect to your existing AWS resources through VPC peering. The default is `172.20.0.0/19`.
  
4. Click **Create cluster**. After Astro finishes creating the cluster, users in your Organization can select the cluster when they [create a Deployment](create-deployment.md). 

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

Commit message:

Create topic on maintenance windows

astro/create-dedicated-cluster.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: 'Create a dedicated cluster'
title: 'Create a dedicated Astro cluster'
id: 'create-dedicated-cluster'
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

A _dedicated cluster_ exclusively runs Deployments from your Organization within a single-tenant environment on Astronomer's cloud. Dedicated clusters provide more configuration options for regions, connectivity, and security than standard clusters. You might want to create a dedicated cluster if:

- You need to connect Astronomer's cloud to an external cloud using VPC peering. Standard clusters are compatible with all other supported connection types.
- You want more options for the region your cluster is hosted in. 
- You otherwise want to keep your Deployments as isolated as possible. 

Dedicated clusters offer the self-service convenience of a fully managed service while respecting the need to keep data private, secure, and within a single-tenant environment. If you don't need the aforementioned features, you can use one of the standard clusters when you [Create a Deployment](create-deployment.md).

## Setup

<Tabs
    defaultValue="aws"
    groupId= "create-a-cluster"
    values={[
        {label: 'AWS', value: 'aws'},
        {label: 'GCP', value: 'gcp'},
        {label: 'Azure', value: 'azure'},
    ]}>

<TabItem value="aws">

1. In the Cloud UI, click the name of of your Workspace in the upper left corner, then click **Organization Settings**.
   
2. Click **Cluster** > **+ Cluster**.
  
3. Configure the following details about your cluster:

    - **Cloud Provider**: Select **AWS**.
    - **Name**: The name for your cluster.
    - **Region**: Select the region that you want your cluster to run in.
    - **VPC Subnet Range**: Provide a subnet range for Astro to connect to your existing AWS resources through VPC peering. The default is `172.20.0.0/20`.
  
4. Click **Create cluster**. After Astro finishes creating the cluster, users in your Organization can select the cluster when they [create a Deployment](create-deployment.md). 
   
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="gcp">

1. In the Cloud UI, click the name of of your Workspace in the upper left corner, then click **Organization Settings**.
   
2. Click **Cluster** > **+ Cluster**.
   
3. Configure the following details about your cluster:

    - **Cloud Provider**: Select **GCP**.
    - **Name**: The name for your cluster.
    - **Region**: Select the region that your cluster runs in.
    - **Subnet CIDR**: Specify the range used by nodes in your GKE cluster (Default: `172.20.0.0/22`).
    - **Pod CIDR**: Specify the range used by GKE Pods (Default: `172.21.0.0/19`).
    - **Service Address CIDR**: Specify the range used by GKE services (Default: `172.22.0.0/22`).
    - **Service VPC Peering**: Specify the range used by Private Service connections (Default: `172.23.0.0/20`).
   
4. Click **Create cluster**. After Astro finishes creating the cluster, users in your Organization can select the cluster when they [create a Deployment](create-deployment.md). 

:::info Configure cluster maintenance windows

All GCP dedicated clusters are subscribed to the [GKE regular release channel](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/release-channels), meaning that Google automatically upgrades the cluster and its nodes whenever an upgrade is available.

After you create a GCP cluster, you can control when these upgrades happen by requesting a [maintenance window](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/maintenance-windows-and-exclusions#maintenance-window) for the cluster. Maintenance windows determine when and how Google updates our cluster. You can use maintenance windows to ensure that upgrades don't happen while critical DAGs are running on your cluster. 

To configure a maintenance window, contact [Astronomer Support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/open-support-request) and provide your cluster ID and desired support window configuration.

:::

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="azure">

1. In the Cloud UI, click the name of of your Workspace in the upper left corner, then click **Organization Settings**.
   
2. Click **Cluster** > **+ Cluster**.
   
3. Configure the following details about your cluster:

    - **Cloud Provider**: Select **Azure**.
    - **Name**: The name for your cluster.
    - **Region**: Select the region that you want your cluster to run in.
    - **VPC Subnet Range**: Provide a subnet range for Astro to connect to your existing Azure resources through VNet peering. The default is `172.20.0.0/19`.
  
4. Click **Create cluster**. After Astro finishes creating the cluster, users in your Organization can select the cluster when they [create a Deployment](create-deployment.md). 

</TabItem>

</Tabs>
