astro/deploy-project-image.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: 'Deploy a project image'
title: 'Deploy an Astro project as an image'
id: deploy-project-image
description: Deploy a complete Astro project to a Deployment as a Docker image.
---

import {siteVariables} from '@site/src/versions';

In an image deploy, the Astro CLI takes every file in your Astro project to builds them into a Docker image. This includes your `Dockerfile`, DAGs, plugins, and all Python and OS-level packages. The CLI then deploys the image to all Airflow components in a Deployment.

Use this document to learn how image deploys work and how to manually push your Astro project to a Deployment. For production environments, Astronomer recommends automating all code deploys with CI/CD. See [Choose a CI/CD strategy](set-up-ci-cd.md).

## Prerequisites

- The [Astro CLI](cli/overview.md) is installed in an empty directory. If you're using an Apple M1 system with Astro Runtime 6.0.4 or later for local development, you must install Astro CLI 1.4.0 or later to deploy to Astro.
- An Astro Workspace with at least one [Deployment](create-deployment.md).
- An [Astro project](cli/develop-project.md#create-an-astro-project).
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) or [Podman](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/configure-cli#run-the-astro-cli-using-podman).

## Step 1: Authenticate to Astro

Run the following command to authenticate to Astro:

```sh
astro login
```

After running this command, you are prompted to open your web browser and log in to the Cloud UI. Once you complete this login, you are automatically authenticated to the CLI.

:::tip

If you have API credentials set as OS-level environment variables on your local machine, you can deploy directly to Astro without needing to manually authenticate. This setup is required for automating code deploys with [CI/CD](set-up-ci-cd.md).

:::

## Step 2: Push your Astro project to an Astro Deployment

To deploy your Astro project, run:

```sh
astro deploy
```

This command returns a list of Deployments available in your Workspace and prompts you to pick one.

After you select a Deployment, the CLI parses your DAGs to ensure that they don't contain basic syntax and import errors. This test is equivalent to the one that runs during `astro dev parse` in a local Airflow environment. If any of your DAGs fail this parse, the deploy to Astro also fails. To force a deploy even if your project has DAG errors, you can run `astro deploy --force`.

If your code passes the parse, the Astro CLI deploys your project in two separate, simultaneous processes:

- The Astro CLI uploads your `dags` directory to Astronomer-hosted blob storage. Your Deployment downloads the DAGs from the blob storage and applies the code to all of its running Airflow containers.
- The Astro CLI builds all other project files into a Docker image and deploys this to an Astronomer-hosted Docker registry. The Deployment then applies the image to all of its running Airflow containers.

See [What happens during a project deploy](#what-happens-during-a-project-deploy) for a more detailed description of how the Astro CLI and Astro work together to deploy your code.

:::info

If your internet connection has slow upload speeds, the deploy might fail with the error `error parsing HTTP 408 response body: unexpected end of JSON input`. If you're only deploying a change to your DAGs, trigger a [DAG only deploy](deploy-dags.md) so that you're only deploying DAGs over your connection. To deploy a complete project over a slow connection, you can [deploy with CI/CD](set-up-ci-cd.md).

:::

:::tip

To validate your code before deploying it to Astro, you can run `astro deploy --pytest`. Adding the `--pytest` flag makes the CLI run all tests in your project's `tests` directory using [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.0.x/contents.html). If any of these tests fail, your code deploy also fails. This can help you prevent your team from deploying DAGs to Astro that contain errors.

For more information about using Pytest, see [Troubleshoot your local Airflow environment](cli/run-airflow-locally.md) and [Testing Airflow DAGs](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/testing-airflow).

:::

## Step 3: Validate your changes

When you start a code deploy to Astro, the status of the Deployment is **DEPLOYING** until it is determined that the underlying Airflow components are running the latest version of your code. During this time, you can hover over the status indicator to determine whether your entire Astro project or only DAGs were deployed .

When the deploy completes, the **Docker Image** field in the Cloud UI are updated depending on the type of deploy you completed. 

- The **Docker Image** field displays a unique identifier generated by a Continuous Integration (CI) tool or a timestamp generated by the Astro CLI after you complete an image deploy. 

To confirm a deploy was successful, verify that the running versions of your Docker image and DAG bundle have been updated.

1. In the Cloud UI, select a Workspace and then select a Deployment.
2. Review the information in the **Docker Image** and **DAG bundle version** field to determine the Deployment code version.

## What happens during a project deploy

Read this section for a more detailed description of the project deploy process.

Your Deployment uses the following components to process your code deploy:

- A proprietary operator for deploying Docker images to your Airflow containers
- A sidecar for downloading DAGs attached to each Airflow component container
- A blob storage container hosted by Astronomer
  
When you run `astro deploy`, the Astro CLI deploys all non-DAG files in your project as an image to an Astronomer-hosted Docker registry. The proprietary operator pulls the images from a Docker registry, then updates the running image for all Airflow containers in your Deployment. DAG changes are deployed through a separate and simultaneous process:

- The Astro CLI uploads your `dags` folder to the Deployment's blob storage.
- The DAG downloader sidecars download the new DAGs from blob storage.

:::info

This process is different if your Deployment has DAG-only deploys disabled, which is the default setting for all Astro Hybrid Deployments. See [Enable/disable DAG-only deploys on a Deployment](deploy-dags.md#enable--disable-dag-only-deploys-on-a-deployment) for how the process changes when DAG-only deploys are disabled.

:::

Use the following diagram to understand the relationship between Astronomer, your local machine, and your Deployment:

![A diagram showing how different Astro CLI commands move your files from your local machine to a Deployment on Astro](/img/docs/deploy-diagram.png)

### How Deployments handle code deploys

After a Deployment receives the deploy, Astro gracefully terminates all of its containers except for the Airflow webserver and any Celery workers or Kubernetes worker Pods that are currently running tasks. All new workers run your new code.

If you deploy code to a Deployment that is running a previous version of your code, then the following happens:

- Tasks that are `running` continue to run on existing workers and are not interrupted unless the task does not complete within 24 hours of the code deploy.
- One or more new workers are created alongside your existing workers and immediately start executing scheduled tasks based on your latest code.

    These new workers execute downstream tasks of DAG runs that are in progress. For example, if you deploy to Astronomer when `Task A` of your DAG is running, `Task A` continues to run on an old Celery worker. If `Task B` and `Task C` are downstream of `Task A`, they are both scheduled on new Celery workers running your latest code.

    This means that DAG runs could fail due to downstream tasks running code from a different source than their upstream tasks. DAG runs that fail this way need to be fully restarted from the Airflow UI so that all tasks are executed based on the same source code.

Astronomer sets a grace period of 24 hours for all workers to allow running tasks to continue executing. This grace period is not configurable. If a task does not complete within 24 hours, its worker is terminated. Airflow marks the task as a [zombie](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/tasks.html#zombie-undead-tasks) and it retries according to the task's retry policy. This is to ensure that our team can reliably upgrade and maintain Astro as a service.

:::tip

If you want to force long-running tasks to terminate sooner than 24 hours, specify an [`execution_timeout`](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/tasks.html#timeouts) in your DAG's task definition.

:::

## Deploy a prebuilt Docker image

By default, running `astro deploy` with the Astro CLI builds your Astro project into a Docker image and deploys it to Astro. In some cases, you might want to skip the build step and deploy a prebuilt Docker image instead.

Deploying a prebuilt Docker image allows you to:

- Test a single Docker image across Deployments instead of rebuilding it each time.
- Reduce the time it takes to deploy. If your Astro project has a number of packages that take a long time to install, it can be more efficient to build it separately.
- Specify additional mounts and arguments in your project, which is required for setups such as [installing Python packages from private sources](cli/develop-project.md#install-python-packages-from-private-sources).

To deploy your Astro project as a prebuilt Docker image:

1. Run `docker build` from an Astro project directory or specify the command in a CI/CD pipeline. This Docker image must be based on Astro Runtime and be available in a local Docker registry. If you run this command on an Apple M1 computer or on a computer with an ARM64 processor, you must specify `--platform=linux/amd64` or else the deploy will fail. Astro Deployments require an AMD64-based image and do not support ARM64 architecture.
2. (Optional) Test your Docker image in a local Airflow environment by adding the `--image-name <image-name>` flag to any of the following commands:
   
    - `astro dev start`
    - `astro dev restart`
    - `astro dev parse`
    - `astro dev pytest`
  
3. Run `astro deploy --image-name <image-name>` or specify the command in a CI/CD pipeline.

For more information about this command, see the [CLI command reference](cli/astro-deploy.md).

:::info

If you build an AMD64-based image and run `astro deploy` from an Apple M1 computer, you might see a warning in your terminal. You can ignore the warning.

```
WARNING: The requested image's platform (linux/amd64) does not match the detected host platform 
(linux/arm64/v8) and no specific platform was requested
```

:::

## Related documentation

- [Choose a CI/CD Strategy for deploying code to Astro](set-up-ci-cd.md)
- [Develop your project](cli/develop-project.md)
- [Set environment variables](environment-variables.md)

Commit message:

Image-only deploys (#3150)
* Add release notes

* release notes slow upload speed

* Remove callouts + update graphics

* Add image only update

* Update astro/cli/release-notes.md

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: David Koenitzer <davidkoenit@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Jake Witz <74574233+jwitz@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update astro/cli/astro-deploy.md

Co-authored-by: Jake Witz <74574233+jwitz@users.noreply.github.com>

* review comments

* Add clarification

* Update astro/cli/astro-deploy.md

---------

Co-authored-by: David Koenitzer <davidkoenit@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Jake Witz <74574233+jwitz@users.noreply.github.com>

astro/deploy-project-image.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: 'Deploy a project image'
title: 'Deploy an Astro project as an image'
id: deploy-project-image
description: Deploy a complete Astro project to a Deployment as a Docker image.
---

import {siteVariables} from '@site/src/versions';

In a full deploy, the Astro CLI takes every file in your Astro project to builds them into a Docker image. This includes your `Dockerfile`, DAGs, plugins, and all Python and OS-level packages. The CLI then deploys the image to all Airflow components in a Deployment.

Use this document to learn how full deploys work and how to manually push your Astro project to a Deployment. For production environments, Astronomer recommends automating all code deploys with CI/CD. See [Choose a CI/CD strategy](set-up-ci-cd.md).

See [DAGs-only Deploys](deploy-dags.md) to learn more about how to deploy your DAGs and images separately.

## Prerequisites

- The [Astro CLI](cli/overview.md) is installed in an empty directory. If you're using an Apple M1 system with Astro Runtime 6.0.4 or later for local development, you must install Astro CLI 1.4.0 or later to deploy to Astro.
- An Astro Workspace with at least one [Deployment](create-deployment.md).
- An [Astro project](cli/develop-project.md#create-an-astro-project).
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) or [Podman](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/configure-cli#run-the-astro-cli-using-podman).

## Step 1: Authenticate to Astro

Run the following command to authenticate to Astro:

```sh
astro login
```

After running this command, you are prompted to open your web browser and log in to the Cloud UI. After you complete this login, you are automatically authenticated to the CLI.

:::tip

If you have API credentials set as OS-level environment variables on your local machine, you can deploy directly to Astro without needing to manually authenticate. This setup is required for automating code deploys with [CI/CD](set-up-ci-cd.md).

:::

## Step 2: Push your Astro project to an Astro Deployment

To deploy your Astro project, run:

```sh
astro deploy
```

This command returns a list of Deployments available in your Workspace and prompts you to pick one.

After you select a Deployment, the CLI parses your DAGs to ensure that they don't contain basic syntax and import errors. This test is equivalent to the one that runs during `astro dev parse` in a local Airflow environment. If any of your DAGs fail this parse, the deploy to Astro also fails. To force a deploy even if your project has DAG errors, you can run `astro deploy --force`.

If your code passes the parse, the Astro CLI deploys your project in two separate, simultaneous processes:

- The Astro CLI uploads your `dags` directory to Astronomer-hosted blob storage. Your Deployment downloads the DAGs from the blob storage and applies the code to all of its running Airflow containers.
- The Astro CLI builds all other project files into a Docker image and deploys this to an Astronomer-hosted Docker registry. The Deployment then applies the image to all of its running Airflow containers.

See [What happens during a project deploy](#what-happens-during-a-project-deploy) for a more detailed description of how the Astro CLI and Astro work together to deploy your code.

:::tip

To validate your code before deploying it to Astro, you can run `astro deploy --pytest`. Adding the `--pytest` flag makes the CLI run all tests in your project's `tests` directory using [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.0.x/contents.html). If any of these tests fail, your code deploy also fails. This can help you prevent your team from deploying DAGs to Astro that contain errors.

For more information about using Pytest, see [Troubleshoot your local Airflow environment](cli/run-airflow-locally.md) and [Testing Airflow DAGs](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/testing-airflow).

:::

## Step 3: Validate your changes

When you start a code deploy to Astro, the status of the Deployment is **DEPLOYING** until it is determined that the underlying Airflow components are running the latest version of your code. During this time, you can hover over the status indicator to determine whether your entire Astro project or only DAGs were deployed .

When the deploy completes, the **Docker Image** field in the Cloud UI are updated depending on the type of deploy you completed.

- The **Docker Image** field displays a unique identifier generated by a Continuous Integration (CI) tool or a timestamp generated by the Astro CLI after you complete an image deploy.

To confirm a deploy was successful, verify that the running versions of your Docker image and DAG bundle have been updated.

1. In the Cloud UI, select a Workspace and then select a Deployment.
2. Review the information in the **Docker Image** and **DAG bundle version** field to determine the Deployment code version.

## What happens during a project deploy

Read this section for a more detailed description of the project deploy process.

Your Deployment uses the following components to process your code deploy:

- A proprietary operator for deploying Docker images to your Airflow containers
- A sidecar for downloading DAGs attached to each Airflow component container
- A blob storage container hosted by Astronomer

When you run `astro deploy`, the Astro CLI deploys all non-DAG files in your project as an image to an Astronomer-hosted Docker registry. The proprietary operator pulls the images from a Docker registry, then updates the running image for all Airflow containers in your Deployment. DAG changes are deployed through a separate and simultaneous process:

- The Astro CLI uploads your `dags` folder to the Deployment's blob storage.
- The DAG downloader sidecars download the new DAGs from blob storage.

:::info

This process is different if your Deployment has DAG-only deploys disabled, which is the default setting for all Astro Hybrid Deployments. See [Enable/disable DAG-only deploys on a Deployment](deploy-dags.md#enable--disable-dag-only-deploys-on-a-deployment) for how the process changes when DAG-only deploys are disabled.

:::

Use the following diagram to understand the relationship between Astronomer, your local machine, and your Deployment:

![A diagram showing how different Astro CLI commands move your files from your local machine to a Deployment on Astro](/img/docs/deploy-diagram.png)

### How Deployments handle code deploys

After a Deployment receives the deploy, Astro gracefully terminates all of its containers except for the Airflow webserver and any Celery workers or Kubernetes worker Pods that are currently running tasks. All new workers run your new code.

If you deploy code to a Deployment that is running a previous version of your code, then the following happens:

- Tasks that are `running` continue to run on existing workers and are not interrupted unless the task does not complete within 24 hours of the code deploy.
- One or more new workers are created alongside your existing workers and immediately start executing scheduled tasks based on your latest code.

    These new workers execute downstream tasks of DAG runs that are in progress. For example, if you deploy to Astronomer when `Task A` of your DAG is running, `Task A` continues to run on an old Celery worker. If `Task B` and `Task C` are downstream of `Task A`, they are both scheduled on new Celery workers running your latest code.

    This means that DAG runs could fail due to downstream tasks running code from a different source than their upstream tasks. DAG runs that fail this way need to be fully restarted from the Airflow UI so that all tasks are executed based on the same source code.

Astronomer sets a grace period of 24 hours for all workers to allow running tasks to continue executing. This grace period is not configurable. If a task does not complete within 24 hours, its worker is terminated. Airflow marks the task as a [zombie](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/tasks.html#zombie-undead-tasks) and it retries according to the task's retry policy. This is to ensure that our team can reliably upgrade and maintain Astro as a service.

:::tip

If you want to force long-running tasks to terminate sooner than 24 hours, specify an [`execution_timeout`](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/tasks.html#timeouts) in your DAG's task definition.

:::

## Deploy a prebuilt Docker image

By default, running `astro deploy` with the Astro CLI builds your Astro project into a Docker image and deploys it to Astro. In some cases, you might want to skip the build step and deploy a prebuilt Docker image instead.

Deploying a prebuilt Docker image allows you to:

- Test a single Docker image across Deployments instead of rebuilding it each time.
- Reduce the time it takes to deploy. If your Astro project has a number of packages that take a long time to install, it can be more efficient to build it separately.
- Specify additional mounts and arguments in your project, which is required for setups such as [installing Python packages from private sources](cli/develop-project.md#install-python-packages-from-private-sources).

To deploy your Astro project as a prebuilt Docker image:

1. Run `docker build` from an Astro project directory or specify the command in a CI/CD pipeline. This Docker image must be based on Astro Runtime and be available in a local Docker registry. If you run this command on an Apple M1 computer or on a computer with an ARM64 processor, you must specify `--platform=linux/amd64` or else the deploy will fail. Astro Deployments require an AMD64-based image and do not support ARM64 architecture.
2. (Optional) Test your Docker image in a local Airflow environment by adding the `--image-name <image-name>` flag to any of the following commands:

    - `astro dev start`
    - `astro dev restart`
    - `astro dev parse`
    - `astro dev pytest`

3. Run `astro deploy --image-name <image-name>` or specify the command in a CI/CD pipeline.

If you have DAG-only deploys enabled, you can also use the `--image` flag to deploy a prebuilt image without also deploying your DAGs folder. Use `astro deploy --image-name <image-name> --image`.

For more information about the `--image-name` option, see the [CLI command reference](cli/astro-deploy.md).

:::info

If you build an AMD64-based image and run `astro deploy` from an Apple M1 computer, you might see a warning in your terminal. You can ignore the warning.

```
WARNING: The requested image's platform (linux/amd64) does not match the detected host platform
(linux/arm64/v8) and no specific platform was requested
```

:::

## Related documentation

- [Choose a CI/CD Strategy for deploying code to Astro](set-up-ci-cd.md)
- [Develop your project](cli/develop-project.md)
- [Set environment variables](environment-variables.md)
