astro/kubernetes-executor.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: 'Configure the Kubernetes executor'
title: 'Configure the Kubernetes executor'
id: 'kubernetes-executor'
---

On Astro, you can configure Kubernetes executor in the following ways:

- Change the resource usage for the default Pods on which your tasks run in the Cloud UI.
- Customize individual Pods for tasks, including CPU and memory requests, using a `pod_override` configuration in your DAG code. 

:::info

This document describes how to configure individual task Pods for different use cases. To configure defaults for all Kubernetes executor task pods, see [Configure Kubernetes Pod resources](deployment-settings.md#configure-kubernetes-pod-resources).

:::

## Customize a task's Kubernetes Pod

:::warning

While you can customize all values for a worker Pod, Astronomer does not recommend configuring complex Kubernetes infrastructure in your Pods, such as sidecars. These configurations have not been tested by Astronomer.

:::

For each task running with the Kubernetes executor, you can customize its individual worker Pod and override the defaults used in Astro by configuring a `pod_override` file.

1. Add the following import to your DAG file:

    ```sh
    from kubernetes.client import models as k8s
    ```

2. Add a `pod_override` configuration to the DAG file containing the task. See the [`kubernetes-client`](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python/blob/master/kubernetes/docs/V1Container.md) GitHub for a list of all possible settings you can include in the configuration.
3. Specify the `pod_override` in the task's parameters.

See [Manage task CPU and memory](#example-set-CPU-or-memory-limits-and-requests) for an example `pod_override` configuration. 

### Example: Set CPU or memory limits and requests

You can request a specific amount of resources for a Kubernetes worker Pod so that a task always has enough resources to run successfully. When requesting resources, make sure that your requests don't exceed the resource limits in your [default Pod](deployment-settings.md#configure-kubernetes-pod-resources).

The following example shows how you can use a `pod_override` configuration in your DAG code to request custom resources for a task:

```python
import pendulum
import time

from airflow import DAG
from airflow.decorators import task
from airflow.operators.bash import BashOperator
from airflow.operators.python import PythonOperator
from airflow.example_dags.libs.helper import print_stuff
from kubernetes.client import models as k8s


k8s_exec_config_resource_requirements = {
    "pod_override": k8s.V1Pod(
        spec=k8s.V1PodSpec(
            containers=[
                k8s.V1Container(
                    name="base",
                    resources=k8s.V1ResourceRequirements(
                        requests={"cpu": 0.5, "memory": "1024Mi"},
                        limits={"cpu": 0.5, "memory": "1024Mi"}
                    )
                )
            ]
        )
    )
}

with DAG(
    dag_id="example_kubernetes_executor_pod_override_sources",
    schedule=None,
    start_date=pendulum.datetime(2023, 1, 1, tz="UTC"),
    catchup=False
):
    BashOperator(
      task_id="bash_resource_requirements_override_example",
      bash_command="echo hi",
      executor_config=k8s_exec_config_resource_requirements
    )

    @task(executor_config=k8s_exec_config_resource_requirements)
    def resource_requirements_override_example():
        print_stuff()
        time.sleep(60)

    resource_requirements_override_example()
```

When this DAG runs, it launches a Kubernetes Pod with exactly 0.5m of CPU and 1024Mi of memory, as long as that infrastructure is available in your Deployment. After the task finishes, the Pod terminates gracefully.

## Use secret environment variables in worker Pods

In Astro, [environment variables](environment-variables.md) marked as secrets are stored in a Kubernetes secret called `env-secrets`. These environment variables are already available to your worker Pods and can be accessed in your tasks just like any other environment variable. For example, you can use `os.environ[<your-secret-env-var>]` or `os.getenv(<your-secret-env-var>, None)` in your Python code. 

However, if you can’t use Python or are using a pre-defined code that expects specific keys for environment variables, you need to mount the secret environment variables by pulling the value from `env-secrets` and mount it to the Pod running your task as a new Kubernetes Secret.

1. Add the following import to your DAG file:
   
    ```python
    from airflow.kubernetes.secret import Secret
    ```

2. Define a Kubernetes `Secret` in your DAG instantiation using the following format:

    ```python
    secret_env = Secret(deploy_type="env", deploy_target="<VARIABLE_KEY>", secret="env-secrets", key="<VARIABLE_KEY>")
    namespace = conf.get("kubernetes", "NAMESPACE")
    ```

3. Specify the `Secret` in the `secret_key_ref` section of your `pod_override` configuration.

4. In the task where you want to use the secret value, add the following task-level argument:

    ```python
    op_kwargs={
            "env_name": secret_env.deploy_target
    },
    ```

5. In the executable for the task, call the secret value using `os.environ[env_name]`.

In the following example, a secret named `MY_SECRET` is pulled from `env-secrets` and printed to logs.
 
```python
import pendulum
from kubernetes.client import models as k8s

from airflow.configuration import conf
from airflow.kubernetes.secret import Secret
from airflow.models import DAG
from airflow.providers.cncf.kubernetes.operators.kubernetes_pod import KubernetesPodOperator
from airflow.operators.python import PythonOperator


def print_env(env_name):
    import os
    print(os.environ[env_name])

with DAG(
        dag_id='test-secret',
        start_date=pendulum.datetime(2022, 1, 1, tz="UTC"),
        end_date=pendulum.datetime(2022, 1, 5, tz="UTC"),
        schedule="@once",
) as dag:
    secret_env = Secret(deploy_type="env", deploy_target="MY_SECRET", secret="env-secrets", key="MY_SECRET")
    namespace = conf.get("kubernetes", "NAMESPACE")

    p = PythonOperator(
        python_callable=print_env,
        op_kwargs={
            "env_name": secret_env.deploy_target
        },
        task_id='test-py-env',
        executor_config={
            "pod_override": k8s.V1Pod(
                spec=k8s.V1PodSpec(
                    containers=[
                        k8s.V1Container(
                            name="base",
                            env=[
                                k8s.V1EnvVar(
                                    name=secret_env.deploy_target,
                                    value_from=k8s.V1EnvVarSource(
                                        secret_key_ref=k8s.V1SecretKeySelector(name=secret_env.secret,
                                                                               key=secret_env.key)
                                    ),
                                )
                            ],
                        )
                    ]
                )
            ),
        }
    )
```

## (Astro Hybrid only) Change the Kubernetes executor's worker node type

:::info

This section applies only to [Astro Hybrid](hybrid-overview.md) users. To see whether you're an Astro Hybrid user, open your Organization in the Cloud UI and go to **Settings** > **General**. Your Astro product type is listed under **Product Type**.

:::

A Deployment on Astro Hybrid that uses the Kubernetes executor runs worker Pods on a single `default` worker queue. You can change the type of worker that this queue uses from the Cloud UI.

1. In the Cloud UI, select a Workspace, click **Deployments**, and then select a Deployment.

2. Click the **Worker Queues** tab and then click **Edit** to edit the `default` worker queue.

3. In the **Worker Type** list, select the type of worker to run your Pods on.

4. Click **Update Queue**.


## See also

- [Configure Kubernetes Pod resources](deployment-settings.md#configure-kubernetes-pod-resources)
- [How to use cluster ConfigMaps, Secrets, and Volumes with Pods](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-cncf-kubernetes/stable/operators.html#how-to-use-cluster-configmaps-secrets-and-volumes-with-pod)
- [Run the KubernetesPodOperator on Astro](kubernetespodoperator.md)
- [Airflow Executors explained](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/airflow-executors-explained)

Commit message:

Add callouts about requests=limits

astro/kubernetes-executor.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: 'Configure the Kubernetes executor'
title: 'Configure the Kubernetes executor'
id: 'kubernetes-executor'
---

On Astro, you can configure Kubernetes executor in the following ways:

- Change the resource usage for the default Pods on which your tasks run in the Cloud UI.
- Customize individual Pods for tasks, including CPU and memory requests, using a `pod_override` configuration in your DAG code. 

:::info

This document describes how to configure individual task Pods for different use cases. To configure defaults for all Kubernetes executor task pods, see [Configure Kubernetes Pod resources](deployment-settings.md#configure-kubernetes-pod-resources).

:::

## Customize a task's Kubernetes Pod

:::warning

While you can customize all values for a worker Pod, Astronomer does not recommend configuring complex Kubernetes infrastructure in your Pods, such as sidecars. These configurations have not been tested by Astronomer.

:::

For each task running with the Kubernetes executor, you can customize its individual worker Pod and override the defaults used in Astro by configuring a `pod_override` file.

1. Add the following import to your DAG file:

    ```sh
    from kubernetes.client import models as k8s
    ```

2. Add a `pod_override` configuration to the DAG file containing the task. See the [`kubernetes-client`](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python/blob/master/kubernetes/docs/V1Container.md) GitHub for a list of all possible settings you can include in the configuration.
3. Specify the `pod_override` in the task's parameters.

See [Manage task CPU and memory](#example-set-CPU-or-memory-limits-and-requests) for an example `pod_override` configuration. 

### Example: Set CPU or memory limits and requests

You can request a specific amount of resources for a Kubernetes worker Pod so that a task always has enough resources to run successfully. When requesting resources, make sure that your requests don't exceed the resource limits in your [default Pod](deployment-settings.md#configure-kubernetes-pod-resources).

The following example shows how you can use a `pod_override` configuration in your DAG code to request custom resources for a task:

```python
import pendulum
import time

from airflow import DAG
from airflow.decorators import task
from airflow.operators.bash import BashOperator
from airflow.operators.python import PythonOperator
from airflow.example_dags.libs.helper import print_stuff
from kubernetes.client import models as k8s


k8s_exec_config_resource_requirements = {
    "pod_override": k8s.V1Pod(
        spec=k8s.V1PodSpec(
            containers=[
                k8s.V1Container(
                    name="base",
                    resources=k8s.V1ResourceRequirements(
                        requests={"cpu": 0.5, "memory": "1024Mi"},
                        limits={"cpu": 0.5, "memory": "1024Mi"}
                    )
                )
            ]
        )
    )
}

with DAG(
    dag_id="example_kubernetes_executor_pod_override_sources",
    schedule=None,
    start_date=pendulum.datetime(2023, 1, 1, tz="UTC"),
    catchup=False
):
    BashOperator(
      task_id="bash_resource_requirements_override_example",
      bash_command="echo hi",
      executor_config=k8s_exec_config_resource_requirements
    )

    @task(executor_config=k8s_exec_config_resource_requirements)
    def resource_requirements_override_example():
        print_stuff()
        time.sleep(60)

    resource_requirements_override_example()
```

When this DAG runs, it launches a Kubernetes Pod with exactly 0.5m of CPU and 1024Mi of memory, as long as that infrastructure is available in your Deployment. After the task finishes, the Pod terminates gracefully.

:::tip Astro Hosted

For Astro Hosted environments, if you set resource requests to be less than the maximum limit, Astro automatically requests the maximum limit that you set. This means that you might consume more resources than you expected if you set the limit much higher than the resource request you need. Check your [Billing and usage](manage-billing.md) to view your resource use and associated charges.

:::


## Use secret environment variables in worker Pods

In Astro, [environment variables](environment-variables.md) marked as secrets are stored in a Kubernetes secret called `env-secrets`. These environment variables are already available to your worker Pods and can be accessed in your tasks just like any other environment variable. For example, you can use `os.environ[<your-secret-env-var>]` or `os.getenv(<your-secret-env-var>, None)` in your Python code. 

However, if you can’t use Python or are using a pre-defined code that expects specific keys for environment variables, you need to mount the secret environment variables by pulling the value from `env-secrets` and mount it to the Pod running your task as a new Kubernetes Secret.

1. Add the following import to your DAG file:
   
    ```python
    from airflow.kubernetes.secret import Secret
    ```

2. Define a Kubernetes `Secret` in your DAG instantiation using the following format:

    ```python
    secret_env = Secret(deploy_type="env", deploy_target="<VARIABLE_KEY>", secret="env-secrets", key="<VARIABLE_KEY>")
    namespace = conf.get("kubernetes", "NAMESPACE")
    ```

3. Specify the `Secret` in the `secret_key_ref` section of your `pod_override` configuration.

4. In the task where you want to use the secret value, add the following task-level argument:

    ```python
    op_kwargs={
            "env_name": secret_env.deploy_target
    },
    ```

5. In the executable for the task, call the secret value using `os.environ[env_name]`.

In the following example, a secret named `MY_SECRET` is pulled from `env-secrets` and printed to logs.
 
```python
import pendulum
from kubernetes.client import models as k8s

from airflow.configuration import conf
from airflow.kubernetes.secret import Secret
from airflow.models import DAG
from airflow.providers.cncf.kubernetes.operators.kubernetes_pod import KubernetesPodOperator
from airflow.operators.python import PythonOperator


def print_env(env_name):
    import os
    print(os.environ[env_name])

with DAG(
        dag_id='test-secret',
        start_date=pendulum.datetime(2022, 1, 1, tz="UTC"),
        end_date=pendulum.datetime(2022, 1, 5, tz="UTC"),
        schedule="@once",
) as dag:
    secret_env = Secret(deploy_type="env", deploy_target="MY_SECRET", secret="env-secrets", key="MY_SECRET")
    namespace = conf.get("kubernetes", "NAMESPACE")

    p = PythonOperator(
        python_callable=print_env,
        op_kwargs={
            "env_name": secret_env.deploy_target
        },
        task_id='test-py-env',
        executor_config={
            "pod_override": k8s.V1Pod(
                spec=k8s.V1PodSpec(
                    containers=[
                        k8s.V1Container(
                            name="base",
                            env=[
                                k8s.V1EnvVar(
                                    name=secret_env.deploy_target,
                                    value_from=k8s.V1EnvVarSource(
                                        secret_key_ref=k8s.V1SecretKeySelector(name=secret_env.secret,
                                                                               key=secret_env.key)
                                    ),
                                )
                            ],
                        )
                    ]
                )
            ),
        }
    )
```

## (Astro Hybrid only) Change the Kubernetes executor's worker node type

:::info

This section applies only to [Astro Hybrid](hybrid-overview.md) users. To see whether you're an Astro Hybrid user, open your Organization in the Cloud UI and go to **Settings** > **General**. Your Astro product type is listed under **Product Type**.

:::

A Deployment on Astro Hybrid that uses the Kubernetes executor runs worker Pods on a single `default` worker queue. You can change the type of worker that this queue uses from the Cloud UI.

1. In the Cloud UI, select a Workspace, click **Deployments**, and then select a Deployment.

2. Click the **Worker Queues** tab and then click **Edit** to edit the `default` worker queue.

3. In the **Worker Type** list, select the type of worker to run your Pods on.

4. Click **Update Queue**.


## See also

- [Configure Kubernetes Pod resources](deployment-settings.md#configure-kubernetes-pod-resources)
- [How to use cluster ConfigMaps, Secrets, and Volumes with Pods](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-cncf-kubernetes/stable/operators.html#how-to-use-cluster-configmaps-secrets-and-volumes-with-pod)
- [Run the KubernetesPodOperator on Astro](kubernetespodoperator.md)
- [Airflow Executors explained](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/airflow-executors-explained)
